---
title: The 13th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-06-30T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-06-30/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“The LORD said to Elijah: "You shall anoint Elisha... as prophet to succeed you."_

In the Old Testament, God first reveals Himself to “the Fathers” and He makes a covenant with them. This is Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. From there, Joseph goes to Egypt and the Jews are enslaved. After 400 years, Moses shows up and after him, Joshua.

For a few hundred years, the Jews will be governed as Tribes with little real leadership from God or man. Then, “the judges” show up on the scene. These are prophet-like people who are more oriented toward human justice than they are worried about religion. After the judges, various prophets wander into and out of Jewish history. These prophets are both civil and religious people who are less mystics who sense the supernatural and more wandering preachers. The so-called “Major” and “Minor” prophets are the handful of those prophets who had supernatural visions and who had a major impact.

Around 1000 BC, the Lord appoints a king over the people. This is where we get King Saul. He turns out to be a disappointment and is overthrown by King David and his most popular son, Solomon. From this point on, Israel is ruled by “the kings.” Throughout the New Testament, these Fathers (AKA “Patriarchs”), Judges, Prophets and Kings are the point of reference for Jewish history and a constant reminder of how quickly a society can go off the rails without a point of reference back to God.

In our own world, names like Stalin, Hitler, and Napoleon on the one hand and Lincoln, Reagan and Martin Luther King on the other evoke not just specific choices, but the whole social and political context surrounding an issue or a time.

That’s one of the things that makes Bible study difficult. Jesus can say “there will be no sign except that of Jonah” and we think of the story of Jonah. But for the Jews, that’s not just a story, it’s like us calling to mind 9/11 or the Cold War.
We can never train ourselves well enough to be that literate Biblically speaking, but we do well to keep in mind how deeply the words of the Bible go. Lord, help us to be in awe of you every day!

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

This past week, we had a nasty storm and a huge limb from the big oak near the hall fell into the parking lot. One of our faithful parishioners texted me around 8am and said, simply, “I’m in the parking lot.” I strolled out in my PJs (most mornings I don’t shower until after I exercise) and found him staring at this gigantic limb. I was completely dumbstruck! I’m a light sleeper and I usually check our video cameras early every morning just to make sure we didn’t have any unexpected visitors at night. By the time I went back in to put on some real clothes, I was told that a crew was coming to cut it up and and haul it away. I was dumbfounded again.

I had an appointment that morning and so I had to leave around 11am and when I stepped outside to go I found the crew had already cut the tree and were hauling it off. It was amazing! Not the cutting and hauling, but the willing…

I’m sure everyone knows who it was, but I haven’t checked with the gentleman to ask his permission to tell the story, so it’ll just be an open secret. Still, I’m still surprised and astonished at how this community loves and takes care of its Church. Despite the wounds that the priests and bishops of the Church have dealt to people here over the years… Despite the uncertainty of the universal leadership of the Church… Despite a hundred reasons not to be generous and to go out of one’s way to help out, so many of you are here when the need is clear.

From the secretarial work, to cleaning the Church and the hall, to preparing for events to cooking for socials to setting up and taking down tables to a hundred other tasks, this parish steps up.

Even in the course of this recent discussion about whether or not to buy a plot of land across from the Church, so many people have spoken to me and have committed themselves to donations to make it possible if we decide to go forward with the purchase.

I have a lot of friends who are pastors. And in the course of my 14 years of priesthood, I’ve heard A LOT of horror stories about priests who are in tough parishes. (Many of the fine people of Natchitoches put me through some inhuman pain and suffering…) And yet, I don’t believe I’ve found a priest who has been at a parish that is so ready to do what needs to be done when the need is made clear. It’s incredible.

There are plenty of rich parishes. There are plenty of parishes with a bazillion families. There are plenty of parishes with a staff of dozens. But there are surprisingly few parishes which form a genuine community and which rely upon one another to make Catholicism possible. And only a small percentage of those get it done with 65 families in total. Most of the parishes with 6500 families struggle to find enough volunteers just to get the Easter Egg hunt finished and here, two hours after a storm knocks down a tree, not one but two men are here taking care of it before the pastor has eaten his oatmeal and done his pushups…

I’m so privileged and humbled to be here with all of you. Thank you all for all that you do!

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

*     July 2 & 3	NO Mass as Father Ryan will be away
*     July 17	Sabbatical Trip report by Father Ryan following 5:30 p.m. Mass
*     July 27	Seminarian Barbecue - St Mary Catholic Church - Winnsboro.  See notes elsewhere

## For Your Information:

Through September, our schedule will be:

- Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
- Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
- Sun. 9am - Tallulah
- Sun. 11:00am - St. Joseph

THIRD QUARTER SCHEDULE FOR MASS ASSISTANTS...can be found on the table at the entrance of church.  The list has been emailed to those on the list; however, some folks like a paper copy as well so pick one up if you need “refrigerator art”.

SABBATICAL TRIP - PART TWO… Father Ryan will present the second and final part of pictures and narrative of his trip last Fall.  It appears that the best Wednesday in July is the 24th. This will be about 6 p.m. in the Church Hall (following 5:30 p.m. Mass).

SEMINARIANS BARBECUE … is scheduled for Saturday, July 27, at St Mary Catholic Church in Winnsboro.  Flyers can be found at the entrance of church. Please advise our church office or Father Ryan if you can participate.

SAINTS ALIVE...ANGELS AT WORK...in Monday’s bad weather, we had a large limb fall in the parking lot.  Thanks to the prompt response of an ANGEL, the mess was quickly removed! “It takes a village!”

Many thanks to those members of the Second Quarter Social group who prepared for last weekend’s Potluck Brunch!!

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2018-19 \$1,917
- May Budget \$7,668
- May Income \$6,837
- May Expenses \$7,798
- June Budget \$9,585
- Collection June 22/23 \$1,814
- June Income to Date \$5,918

**Stewardship ** In today’s second reading, St. Paul provides a wonderful one-sentence summary of Christian stewardship:  “Out of love, place yourselves at one another’s service.”

Special Collection this weekend, June 29/30, for Peter’s Pence that is used by Pope Francis in caring for the marginalized, especially in times of disaster.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 6:00p In memory of Matt Farlow/Scott
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tue NO Mass as Father in Texas
- Wed         NO Mass as Father in Texas
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Joe Scurria/Meadows                                        Legacy Nursing Home
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Michael Mills (for birth anniversary on July 2)/family
- Sat 6:00p In memory of Paul VanderVieren (for birth anniversary on July 7/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 6/29 6:00p
  _ Lector: C VanderVieren
  _ EMHCs: MA Gilfoil & A Keene
- 6/30 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Sullivan & C Wood
  _ Lector: A Oliver \* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
- 7/6 6:00p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: P & B Wilks
- 7/7 9:00a
  _ Servers: P Collins & M Wood
  _ Lector: K Collins \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 7/13 6:00p
  _ Lector: MA Gilfoil
  _ EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
- 7/14 9:00a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: B Sullivan \* EMHCs: B Smith and K Collins

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Josephine Hodge (July 7)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal, Geneva Russell

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Melissa Grady (D Wood), Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Yvonne Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
