---
title: The Seventh Sunday of Easter
date: "2019-06-02T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-06-02/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-white.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“Behold I am sending the promise of my Father upon you…”_

The Holy Spirit has several names in Scripture. He is called “Holy Spirit,” “Advocate” and “Spirit of Truth” more than once. In today’s Gospel, He is called “promise.” Each of these titles reveals a little more to us of how we can think about and understand the Holy Spirit.

It’s worth remembering that God, the Most Holy Trinity, is beyond our ability to understand. It’s not that we DON’T understand Him, it’s that we CAN’T understand Him. And so when God reveals Himself to us, He uses ideas and images that we can understand. We all know what a father is and we know what a son is. We know what birds and fire are. We understand what a counselor and an advocate are. None of these things actually tells us the whole story about God… But each of them tells us something that we need to know. Fathers love their children. Children depend upon their parents and come from them in some ways.

When God reveals Himself as a promise, He reveals both the faithfulness of God the Father and the hope of things unseen that a promise is to us. When someone we trust promises us something, we know that we will get that thing even if we don’t have it right now. And that allows us to feel safe and confident, even as we don’t have all the things we might like to have.

And what, exactly, is God promising, well, the Apostles don’t know! They’re not sure what the Lord wants from them and so they’re not sure what to expect. That may sound like a familiar place to be… But while they don’t know all the details, they have a sense of confidence that the Lord will provide it. That sense is the virtue that we call Hope.

Now, it’s also worth remembering, this hope didn’t free the Apostles of all their fear and anxiety. At Pentecost, they were inside a locked room “for fear of the Jews.” So we shouldn’t think that our human weakness goes away when Hope comes. But as we embrace the promise of the Father in the Holy Spirit, we are freed - little by little - of everything that could keep us bound up in ourselves.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

The Rapture is nonsense. I want to make that really clear. The origins of “the Rapture” are barely 100 years old. It was the equivalent of pop-psychology for anabaptist theologians in the 1900s. These untrained preachers would travel around with their tents preaching revivals. They had to scare folks to get them into tents and so “Rapture” became their go to boogey-man. In the mid-1900s, a few stronger theologians tried to put some meat on the dry bones of this nonsense, but even a very amateur theologian can see the holes in the thinking.

The first thing that comes to mind is that the whole idea comes from three or four verses of the bible. BUT those verses are clearly written as metaphors. Just read the chapters as a whole, and you can easily see that they aren’t meant to reveal some secret details about “The End.”

Far more importantly, though, the entire New Testament warns against trying to know what you ought not to know. Jesus says crystal clear that “no one knows the day or the hour” (Mt 24:36 & Mk 13:32). The letters of the New Testament, especially Ss. Timothy and John warn that lots of goofballs are going to show up on the scene preaching nonsense. These people, St. John says, are antichrists who are leading souls away from Jesus. We’re told not to trust them.

Sadly, this fear-mongering managed to become really mainstream with the rise of Pentecostalism in California in the 50s and with the advent of the celebrity evangelist, most specifically Billy Graham.

Nowadays, many of our Protestant neighbors have bought into it. The Left Behind book series in the 90s and 2000s blurred the mess even worse and presented a kind of generalized Christianity-lite which anyone could practice without reference to much of anything Christian. That gave birth to the Joel Olsteen and Chris Tomlin mega Churches of today - all of whom continue to put forth the Rapture as an easy fear tactic and a supernatural punctuation on their entirely false version of Christianity.

Jesus came in a living tradition of Judaism which he intended to fulfill rather than destroy. He chose specific people and anointed them by the laying on of hands in order to establish a visible, hierarchical Church which would be empowered by the Holy Spirit and which would teach - with visible love and unity - in the name of the Son of God. That same Church wouldn’t publish a Bible for 400 years. At the center of Jesus’ Passion is His deliberate institution of the Holy Eucharist which was seen and understood by the Apostles from the very beginning as the center of the Church. They understood this so clearly, that they appointed Deacons to do the administration and to serve the poor so that they would be fully free to preach and celebrate Mass.

Nowhere in that authentic Christianity is Jesus telling us to decode the Book of Revelation and obsess over supernatural clues about “The End.” Rather, Jesus says to live for Him every day and to let the world and its end be the business of the Holy Spirit.

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* June 1-2 Town Hall Meetings following each Mass this weekend to discuss property acquisition
* June 7 First Friday Devotions to the Sacred Heart of Jesus - 5:30 p.m.
* June 23 Second Quarter Potluck Social following 9:30 a.m. Mass in Church Hall.  Plan to attend

## For Your Information:

As mentioned, from June through September, Fr. Peter K will be out of the country and Fr. Ryan will have all the Masses at both of his Churches as well as here at St. Edward. That schedule will be:

Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
Sun. 9am - Tallulah
Sun. 11:00am - St. Joseph

TOWN HALL MEETINGS…this weekend, June 1 & 2 … please remain after Mass for our Town Hall meetings as your opinion is valued and needed!

ALTAR CANDLES… Anyone wishing to provide candles for the altar in honor of their loved one or in prayer for some intention may do so simply by asking. A small donation is recommended, but not required. A list of dates is in the sacristy and a date can be reserved up to one year in advance.

CATHOLIC COMMUNICATION CAMPAIGN--EVANGELIZATION THROUGH THE MEDIA IN THE DIOCESE OF ALEXANDRIA...this weekend, June 1 & 2, our second collection will go to help connect people around the world with Christ and for us will have the special emphasis on our own diocese’s communication department.

FIRST SUNDAY...JUNE 2 … NO Traditional Latin Mass due to Father’s heavy schedule

FIRST FRIDAY…JUNE 7 ...Holy Hour and Mass....5:30 p.m. ...make a special devotion to the Sacred Heart and attend first Friday devotions for nine consecutive months.

SECOND QUARTER POTLUCK SOCIAL … June 23 following 9:30 a.m. Mass.  Mark your calendar and plan to attend.  
 Second Quarter (April, May, June) Social Committee - Pat and Libby Bullard, Elizabeth Crothers, Angel Farlow, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, MaryAnne Gilfoil, Terry and Andy Hall, Isabell Hernandez, Ann Keene, Andy Nguyen, Bobby Reynolds, Jim and Frances Roemer, Joe Storey, Delia Trichell, and Cathy VanderVieren

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2018-19 \$1,917
- April Budget \$7,668
- April Income \$9,832
- April Expenses \$7,671
- May Budget \$7,668
- Collection May 25/26 \$1,150
- May Income to Date \$6,837

**Stewardship ** The coming of the Lord will bring to each person the reward that his or her conduct deserves.  Has my stewardship of the blessings entrusted to me been such that I could respond joyfully, “Amen!  Come, Lord Jesus!”?

**This weekend** special collection to support Catholic Communication Campaign --Evangelization through the Media in the Diocese of Alexandria.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 6:00p In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/Weaver
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tues 5:30p In memory of Billy Hodge/Bullard
- Wed 5:30p In memory of May DiTomasso
- Thurs 9:00a For a special intention of the Magoun family                         Legacy Nursing Home
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Becky Lancaster/Bullard
- Sat 6:00p In memory of Matt Farlow/R Scott
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intention of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 6/1 6:00p
  _ Lector: C VanderVieren
  _ EMHCs: P & B Wilks
- 6/2 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Sullivan & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: A Keene \* EMHCs: B Smith & Volunteer
- 6/8 6:00p
  _ Lector: L Bullard
  _ EMHCs: A Farlow & MA Gilfoil
- 6/9 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Marsh & C Wood
  _ Lector: B Sullivan \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 6/15 6:00p
  _ Lector: P Wilks
  _ EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
- 6/16 9:00a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan & M Wood
  _ Lector: Carter & Henry \* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Ainslie Oliver Duff (June 6), Billy Marsh (June 8)
**Happy Anniversary** Betty and Kenny Smith (June 1)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal, Geneva Russell

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Kay Collins, Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Kathleen Oliver, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
