---
title: The Fifth Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-02-10T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-02-10/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“Put out into deep water and lower your nets for a catch”_

For my money, one of the best short documents Pope St. John Paul II ever wrote was called “Novo Millennio Ineunte” on the topic of the Jubilee Year 2000. Pope St. John Paul started that document with today’s Gospel reading - DUC IN ALTUM! (in English, “put out into the deep”). The image has always been used by the Church and by preachers to encourage and to challenge.

Simon Peter is tired. He’s tired from his work as a fisherman. He’s tired from having been working in the darkness. He’s tired because he hasn’t had the success that he believed he needed to earn him enough money or prestige or whatever to make him happy. And as he stands on the shoreline with his business rocking on the surf, Jesus comes to Him (not the other way around) and asks Peter for Peter’s permission to stand on the boat.

Now, there’s a lot of symbols here, too many to get into in this short article… But realize that Jesus has asked Peter for permission to come into his daily work. He wants to be a part of his life in all its aspects. Jesus wants to give success to Peter’s business. But, far more so, Jesus wants to use Peter’s life as a witness and transform him into something more than a moderately successful businessman in a small town. He wants to take Peter’s life - as it is - and make it into something supernatural. That’s why Jesus gives Peter a good catch that day, but He does it on His own terms (namely, fishing on the wrong side of the boat). And notice that as soon as Jesus blesses Peter, other people see and come to get in on everything. Peter could have sent them away saying “these are MY fish” - instead, Peter becomes a better person in himself and admits his own sin.
Pope St. John Paul II used this passage because its a model of our world which has lost sight of so many things and which is tired. People, especially middle class people, are increasingly depressed and worn out. The Lord wants more for us than that.

It’s like Lily Tomlin once joked, “the problem with the rat race is that whether you win or lose, you’re still a rat.”

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

I want to continue from above on Pope St. John Paul’s thoughts at the time of the New Millennium.

One of the most important concerns that he raised in his entire time as Pope was that too many people were living without a sense of purpose and meaning. For some people, that looked like fear. (When Pope John Paul first spoke as Pope, he used the phrase “Be Not Afraid” often.) For other people, that purposelessness looks more sadness or depression. The entire PC culture that has lost its collective mind in our modern world is really just a search for some purpose. I think about so many college kids who are getting degrees in useless nonsense just so they feel like they understand the world around them. The violent racism and sexism of moderns liberals is really just a desperate need to believe that they understand the world. And whenever anyone or anything forces them to call that way of thinking into question, it’s a threat!

Donald Trump’s not going to imprison huge numbers of people. He’s not a fascist. He’s also not a paragon of virtue or even a particularly good leader. His great threat, though, is that he says what the universities and the media don’t want said. He says that abortion is murder. He says that the rule of law is necessary. He says that power is not what makes right or wrong… Twenty years ago, that would have just made him human. Now, that makes him the enemy of PC.

All of this stuff is the natural result of a culture that has tried to replace 1) God, 2) The Natural Law and 3) Human Nature with an artificial idea of the world. Pope St. John Paul wrote in his introduction to NMI ¶3: In the final analysis, this rooting of the Church in time and space mirrors the movement of the Incarnation itself. All of the preaching that I do that hammers in the Body + Soul, Physical + Spiritual flows from this. The world is lost not because it too physical and not enough spiritual - it’s lost because it has become untethered from the real physical and has tried to create an artificial physical out of the real one.

The response which the Pope prescribes is our Sunday Liturgy… It is therefore obvious that our principal attention must be given to the liturgy, "the summit towards which the Church's action tends and at the same time the source from which comes all her strength". The Liturgy is where the physical and spiritual intersect. The Sacraments are the physical signs of spiritual realities. The Sunday Mass is where we encounter Jesus in the most powerful and intimate way. The more we focus ourselves on the Lord at Mass, the more we will grow in holiness and the more that people will be drawn to us for conversion.  The Sunday Eucharist which every week gathers Christians together as God's family round the table of the Word and the Bread of Life, is the most natural antidote to dispersion.

Ultimately, the Lord is offering us, like He offered Peter in the Gospel, a life far more meaningful than we might even want. He is not calling us AWAY, but rather DEEPER INTO HIM. Which leaves us with the simple question of how do I respond to this call?

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

- Feb 10 Sunday Morning Catechism & First Holy Communion Lesson
- Feb 13 Town Hall Meeting regarding the Bishop’s Letter
- Feb 19 Pastoral Council Meeting – Parish Hall – following 5:30 p.m. Mass
- Feb 27 Wednesday Evening Catechism...Devotionals - The Rosary, Holy Water, Relics
- March 3 Potluck Brunch celebrating Mardi Gras following Mass - First Quarter Social

## For Your Information:

**TOWN HALL MEETING** This past Wednesday, Bishop Talley published a list of the names of all diocesan clergy who have been “credibly accused” of the sexual abuse of minors. This list is similar to lists published by the Archdiocese of New Orleans and our neighboring Dioceses of Shreveport and Baton Rouge. Fr. Ryan will host a public meeting (open to anyone who wants to come - Catholic or not) to answer questions about the publication. The meeting will begin after the 5:30p Mass and will be held in the Hall and will continue as long as needs be.

PROTECTING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go on line regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.

- “Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse.
- “Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide” 
  The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential.

ALTAR SOCIETY DUES PAYABLE FOR 2019…All ladies of the faith family of St. Edward are considered members of the Altar Society which is responsible for the needs of the altar such as candles, wine, hosts, altar clothes and linens and decorations.  It is now time to pay your \$10 dues for 2019 and there are envelopes at the entrance of church for your convenience. You may return your envelope in the collection basket or to the church office.

FIRST QUARTER SOCIAL COMMITTEE (Jan, Feb, March)...  Margo Corulla and Darryl and Abby Ellerbee will serve as co-chairs for a Potluck Brunch celebrating Mardi Gras on Sunday, March 3, following Mass.  Others making up the group include Norman and Marie Ernst, Brian Johnson, Sidney and Mary Jane Johnson, Robbie and Tori Kivett, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Teddy and Alyssa Oliver, Mike and Sue Rome, Jason Trichell, Mary Trichell, Levi Washington.  All are invited to attend….mark your calendar and plan to participate.

SPECIAL COLLECTION THIS WEEKEND FOR THE CHURCH TODAY...Our monthly 24 page newspaper is mailed FREE to every Catholic household in the Alexandria Diocese.  All donations to this collection go directly to defray the printing and mailing expenses of The Church Today. If your household is not receiving the paper, please let Father Ryan or the church office know and we will be glad to get you on the mailing list!

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2018-19 \$1,917
- January Budget \$7,668
- January Income \$7,790
- December Expenses \$8,837
- February Budget \$7,668
- Collection February 2/3 \$5,455
- February Income to Date \$5,455

**Stewardship ** In today’s readings, both Isaiah and Peter hear the call of God and feel themselves unworthy. But, reassured by the Lord, both answer and follow. Do I hear the Lord asking,”Whom shall I send?” Am I prepared to answer “Here I am. Send me!”

**Special Collection** This weekend to support our Diocesan paper, The Church Today. See details elsewhere. Please be generous.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Matt Farlow/Lancaster
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tue NO MASS as Father away
- Wed 5:30p In memory of Joe Scurria/Meadows
- Thurs 9:00a In memory of Gus Gremshell                   Olive Branch
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Angela Lusk/Leoty
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Marie P. Michele/Finn
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES is week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 2/9 5:30p
  _ Lector: C VanderVieren
  _ EMHCs: L Bullard & M Rome
- 2/10 9:30a
  _ Servers: C Wood & C Sullivan
  _ Lector: D Ellerbee \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 2/16 5:30p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: L Bullard & C VanderVieren
- 2/17 9:30a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: Preston & Caroline \* EMHCs: K Collins & B Smith
- 2/23 5:30p
  _ Lector: P Gilfoil
  _ EMHCs: M Gilfoil & A Keene
- 2/24 9:30a
  _ Servers: A Collins & M Wood
  _ Lector: B Sullivan \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Suzanne Wood (Feb 12), Mike Rome (Feb 14), Kate Copes (Feb 15)
**Happy Anniversary** Susie and Terry Murphy (Feb 13)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop David Talley and Bishop-Emeritus Ronald Herzog, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives
Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal, Geneva Russell

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Tommy and Gail Byrd, Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Kay Collins, Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, JoAnn Phillips Finn (Hodge), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Kathleen Oliver, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
