---
title: The Feast of St. Edward the Confessor
date: "2019-10-13T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-10-13/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Parish Patronal Feast"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: true
---

## From The Font

*“A city set on a mountain cannot be hidden. Nor do they light a lamp and then put it under a bushel basket; it is set on a lampstand, where it gives light to all in the house. Just so, your light must shine before others, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your heavenly Father.”*

The US was founded by protestant Christians hoping to build a city on a hill. They wanted to make a country founded on Christian principles… Sadly, their version of Christianity is about as Christian as a polar bear is cuddly, but the idea isn’t one we should ignore.

During the High Middle Ages, the governance of kingdoms, local towns, and even families was consciously religious. While modern people call this the dark ages, it was anything but dark. This was the time when the great Cathedrals were built. Truly amazing art was created (well before the Renaissance). This was the time when universities and science and banking and even modern sports were developed in a distinctly modern way. The reasons those things came about are all tied to the shared worldview of Catholic Christianity.

Today is the feast of St. Edward. (You can read more about him in my other article this week.) Like many, perhaps most, good leaders, he discovered that faith was an essential part of his sanity and his composure. Far from fogging his vision with thoughts of heaven, eternity grounded him and gave him the freedom to make good decisions and to trust the Lord’s directions for him. The same is true for us.

Christianity is not a private faith. There is no such thing as an anonymous Christian… By its nature, Faith is evangelical. It must be shared. Why? Because Faith is, ultimately, love… And love isn’t love if you don’t want to talk about it! Love demands to be shared and so does Faith in Jesus. The Cathedrals and even the innovations in science came from a desire to make a shared love for God real and tangible in the form of art and architecture and the discovery of truth. THAT’s the city on a hill. THAT’s what should rise from within us - a real desire to share with others what the Lord has done for us.  

*“A city set on a mountain cannot be hidden.”*


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


This weekend we celebrate the feast of our patron saint, Edward the Confessor. He was an incredibly important king in England right around the year 1000 AD. Edward had a tough life. He was born in exile and had a relatively weak claim to the throne. Perhaps for that reason, he was more concerned with prayer than politics. He was uniquely privileged to experience Catholicism on the rise in France and what we now call Western Europe. These broad experiences gave him a deep sense of understanding and his own difficult personal circumstances reinforced within him a reliance on God. He lived as a hostage of sorts being passed from one king’s court to another until a series of tragedies and shocking coincidences gave him an all-too-narrow path to the throne.

Unexpectedly, Edward found himself as the King of England and managed to preside over a remarkable period of peace despite frequent attacks and skirmishes from the French and Danish crowns. During this relative peace, he built up a large area to the west of London and moved his governmental power there. Hence, “west-minster” owes its existence to King Edward. The grand Abbey of Westminster was built by him with very careful attention to detail and it was where he wanted to be buried. And so he is. His tomb is just behind the altar area where the queens and kings of England have been crowned for 1000 years.

But it’s not for all of his politics or even his legacy that he’s remembered as a saint. All through this brilliant political career, Edward never lost sight of his prayer life. He surrounded himself with holy bishops and priests and monks and nuns. He trained his children in faith. He built up the Church.

And so it wasn’t all that surprising that when he died, many people wanted to visit his tomb. Almost immediately, people began to report miracles. Healings were common and the tomb was recarved to make space for eight pilgrims to kneel in small alcoves and offer their prayers to the beloved king.

Now, we can and should ask if all this was legitimate… He gave big bucks to the Church, maybe the Church wanted to encourage the new king to do the same?
Edward’s story is all the more remarkable because his son was killed in the famous Battle of Hastings… Edward’s line ended less than a year after he died. And so all of this tomb building, and pilgrimage organizing and the like wasn’t done by the bishops or the kings that followed Edward - it was done by people who hated his guts. Some of them tried to shut down the tomb or to close Westminster Abbey over the course of the decades that followed. But the people of God in London were having none of it. 

They, the faithful, knew Edward was a saint and that he could work miracles for them and so it was that he was named a saint by the pope about 100 years after he died. Sadly, the silliness of the 1960s removed Edward from the universal Church calendar and so we can only really celebrate him here - which we do on this day.


---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_


- Oct 12/13	Feast of St Edward the Confessor celebrated 
- October 13	Sunday morning Catechism following 9 a.m. Mass (10 a.m.)
- October 15	Pastoral Council Meeting – Parish Hall – following 5:30 p.m. Mass
- October 16	Wednesday Night Catechism  after 5:30 pm Mass 
- October 18	Quarterly Healing Mass at 5:30 p.m.
- Nov 17	Potluck Brunch following 9 a.m. Mass - Fourth Quarter committee

## For Your Information:

Our current Mass schedule is (and hopefully, will be for a good long while): 
Sat. 5:30pm - Holy Mass
Sun. 9am - Holy Mass in Tallulah
Sun. 10am - Sunday Morning Catechism
Sun. 11:15am - Holy Mass in Delhi

PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15,  at 6:00 p.m(after 5:30 p.m. Mass) in the Church Center.  Appointed members of the Council:  MaryAnne Gilfoil,  Josephine Hodge, Michael Lancaster, Ginny Marsh, Beth Sullivan and Levi Washington.  Appointed as Trustees by the Bishop are Brian Johnson and Dale Magoun.  Appointed by the pastor to serve as Finance Council Chair is Darryl Ellerbee.  Additionally, serving on the Council in an ex-officio capacity as President of the Altar Society will be Cathy VanderVieren. All members are requested to make special effort to attend.  Parishioners are encouraged to attend contribute to the discussions.  

HEALING MASS… Every few months, our usual Friday evening Daily Mass will be offered especially for the sick parishioners of our parish and Father with offer the Sacrament of the Anointing of the Sick for those of advanced age or those suffering serious health conditions. This quarter’s  Healing Masses will be offered on October 18.

WEDNESDAY EVENING CATECHISM... In the Church, after the 5:30p Mass.  Father will answer questions after each talk. Guests are welcome!  Topic for October 16: The Church in American History

NOVEMBER… NEW ALTAR SERVER TRAINING… those children who have made their First Communion and are interested in becoming altar servers will have the opportunity to have training.  Parents should contact Father Ryan for arranging a schedule that is mutually convenient.

POTLUCK BRUNCH SOCIAL..SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 17, following Mass to celebrate Fall and Thanksgiving!!!!  Check out your recipes for your favorite dish and plan to join in this Faith Family celebration for our many blessings. Setting up for the event will be the Fourth Quarter (Oct, Nov, Dec) Social Committee- Dorothy Dyer, Leslye Ellerbee, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, Sherry Lynn and Timmy Harris, Josephine Hodge, Michael Lancaster, Dale and Louise Magoun, Billy and Ginny Marsh, William and Sharyn Marsh, Hannah McCartney, Sug Regan, Skeeter and Blanche Wilks, Robert Wood, Edward and Margaret Yerger.

ANGEL TREE..Dana Dukes will be giving leadership to our Angel Tree project again this year.  If you know of a family that you feel is needy and deserving of being nominated, please advise our church office or Dana. More information to follow….

PRAYER FOR HURRICANE SEASON… Our Father in heaven, through the powerful intercession of Our Lady of Prompt Succor, spare us from all harm during this hurricane season, and protect us and our homes from all disasters of nature.  Our Lady of Prompt Succor, hasten to our help.  Amen

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the HolySpirit, one God for ever and ever.  Amen


---

## Our Return to the Lord


- Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
- September Budget $8,444
- September Income $8,049
- September Expenses $8,147
- October Budget $8,444
- Collection October 5/6 $2,536
- October Income to Date $2,536

**Stewardship** Jesus healed ten lepers in today’s Gospel.  Only one (10%) came back to say thank you.  I, too, have received many blessings from the Lord--indeed, all I am and all I have is gift!  How and how often have I remembered to thank Him?

**World Mission Sunday** second collection next weekend (Oct 20)...funds raised support the mission dioceses (St Edward and Diocese of Alexandria are considered “Mission”) of the Catholic Church for catechetical programs, seminaries, the work of Religious communities, and needed buildings such as schools, chapels and churches.  


---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat	5:30p	In memory of Charlie Phillips (death anni 13th)/family
- Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon		NO MASS
- Tue	5:30p	In memory of Alex “Bubba” Jumonville/family
- Wed	5:30p	For Father Ryan’s Special Intention
- Thu	9:00a	In memory of May DiTommaso                               Legacy      
- Fri	5:30p	In memory of Becky Lancaster/S Placke
- Sat	5:30p	In memory of Curley Mills (death anniversary on 21st)/family
- Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Louise Magoun


## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 10/12 6:00p
    - Lector: A Farlow
    - EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
- 10/13 9:00a
    - Servers: C Marsh & C Wood
    - Lector: A Oliver
    - EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 10/19 5:30p
    - Lector: M Rome
    - EMHCs: C VanderVieren & L Magoun
- 10/20 9:00a
    - Servers: C Sullivan & M Wood
    - Lector: P Collins/M Wood
    - EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
- 10/26 5:30p
    - Lector: C VanderVieren
    - EMHCs: A Farlow/L Bullard
- 10/27 9:00a
    - Servers: P Collins & H Ellerbee
    - Lector: D Ellerbee
    - EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Sidney Johnson (Oct 13), Kenny Smith (Oct 14), William Marsh (Oct 16), Kathleen Oliver (Oct 17), Charlotte McKay Marsh (Oct 18), Terry Murphy (Oct 18)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal 

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Ted Osborne, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Debbie Prine (Wilks), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart), Max Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.  

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
