---
title: The 15th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-07-13T14:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-07-14/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“...all your heart, …being, … strength, … mind”_

The fancy Greek words are kardias, psychē,  ischui, and dianoia. Kardias (καρδίας) means “heart” and from which we get our words cardiac and cardioid. That’s easy enough. To love the Lord with all my heart implies passion, courage and vigor. It doesn’t really imply feelings so much as it does attitudes and intentions and, ultimately, actions.

Psychē (ψυχῇ pronounced “PSOO-khay”) is tougher. It’s usually translated as soul and sometimes as breath or life’s-breath. To love the Lord with all my psychē is to love the Lord with all the energy that gives me life. It means to pour myself out and to wear myself out for love of God and in His service.

Ischui (ἰσχύϊ pronounced is-KHOO-ee) comes from the verb which means to apply force to overcome resistance. So if I’m trying to lift something and I have to stop, reposition my hands and really “put my back into it,” that’s what we mean when we say ischui. We serve the Lord from the depths of our strength - physical, moral and otherwise.

Dianoia (διανοίᾳ pronounced dee-AN-oy-ah) is the thinking mind. This is less about IQ or knowledge and more about what we might call “reason” or maybe “understanding.” The origin of the word has to do with “thoroughness” and balance. So the idea isn’t loving the Lord by studying or by knowing a lot. It’s love the Lord by using what He gave you and by applying seeking wisdom over just knowledge.

We could, of course, take that and say “Father, if God is more interested in wisdom than knowledge, why study the Bible, why learn the Faith and why, oh why, do you insist on putting Greek words into bulletins and sermons?!?” And the answer is simply that knowledge informs wisdom and understanding. There’s a reason that Wisdom, Knowledge and Understanding are all three Gifts of the Holy Spirit… We obtain them in differing ways, but God speaks to us through each and each of them helps us to grow in the other.

As for why I like Greek, that’s just the historian in me who loves to know where words came from and how phrases came to be.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

One of my favorite modern writers, economist Thomas Sowell, wrote: “all of modernity has been the effort to replace that which works with that which sounds good.” He wrote that in the middle of the 1970s as the many, many social experiments of the 1960s were failing all around. Sadly, few in the Church had the wherewithal or the courage to admit that it was truer in the Church than anywhere else.

The 1960s and 70s were an era of reckless experimentation. The Baltimore Catechism was thrown out. Every aspect of the Mass was changed without any reference to anything really. And here at St. Edward, the lovely altar rail donated by the Trichel family and built with their own hands was shortened. The “reason” was that the rail somehow separated “the people” from the Lord - or some such nonsense. In reality, that kind of pop-psychology was nothing more than academic arrogance. It turns out that “the people” are plenty smart enough to understand that symbols and imbued with meaning by us and that just because a symbol can be misunderstood doesn’t mean it should be abandoned.

A few months ago, one of our faithful parishioners mentioned at the parish council that the remnants of the shortened altar rail were still in the Church attic and were in relatively good condition. After some investigation, the Trichel family was notified and Mrs. Delia whose husband built the rail began to employ one of the great tools of Catholic motherhood: guilt! Her son Cal is a top notch carpenter and was able to come out this week and reattach his father’s handiwork. My special thanks to the Trichel family for their gifts and talents and for restoring the rail!

I’ll write more about it in the coming weeks and we will be taking advantage of the rail in a number of ways.

Simply put, there is theological and practical value to using the altar rail to receive Holy Communion.

Theologically, it symbolizes the edge between Earth and Heaven which is where Holy Communion brings us. It also reminds us that what happens in the sanctuary is “set apart” which is what the word “holy” means.

Practically, it allows folks the option to receive kneeling or standing, on the tongue or in the hand. It affords the individual communicant more time to prepare to receive AND more time after receiving while making the entire process of Holy Communion noticeably faster. It also gives folks who struggle with balance a place to get a grip and it helps parents wrangle kids into place rather than trying to herd the little ones all together.

We’ll start using the rail for Holy Communion at Mass in August. I’ll explain the process before Holy Communion for several consecutive weekends and it’s remarkably simple. We’ll get the hang of it quickly. After all, it was the way that Catholics received Holy Communion for the past thousand years, despite what the media may tell us, Human nature really doesn’t change much over the course of time and certainly not in the past century.

Again, my thanks to the Trichel family!

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* July 16 Pastoral Council meeting.  Please mark your calendar to attend if you are a member.
* July 24 Sabbatical Trip report by Father Ryan following 5:30 p.m. Mass
* July 27 Seminarian Barbecue - St Mary Catholic Church - Winnsboro.  See notes elsewhere

## For Your Information:

Through September, our schedule will be:

- Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
- Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
- Sun. 9am - Tallulah
- Sun. 11:00am - St. Joseph

SABBATICAL TRIP - PART TWO… Father Ryan will present the second and final part of pictures and narrative of his trip last Fall.  It appears that the best Wednesday in July is the 24th. This will be about 6 p.m. in the Church Hall (following 5:30 p.m. Mass).

SEMINARIANS BARBECUE … is scheduled for Saturday, July 27, at St Mary Catholic Church in Winnsboro.  Flyers can be found at the entrance to church. Please advise our church office or Father Ryan if you can participate.

PRAYER FOR HURRICANE SEASON… O God, Master of this passing world, hear the humble voices of your children.  The Sea of Galilee obeyed your order and returned to its former quietude; you are still the Master of land and sea.  We live in the shadow of a danger over which we have no control. The Gulf, like a provoked and angry giant, can awake from its seeming lethargy, overstep its conventional boundaries, invade our land and spread chaos and disaster.  During this hurricane season, we turn to You, O loving Father. Spare us from past tragedies whose memories are still so vivid and whose wounds seem to refuse to heal with the passing of time. O Virgin, Star of the Sea, Our Beloved Mother, we ask you to plead with your Son in our behalf so that spared from the calamities common to this area and animated with a true spirit of gratitude, we will walk in the footsteps of your Divine Son to reach the heavenly Jerusalem where a stormless eternity awaits us.  Amen (Fr. Al Volpe, Cameron Parish, LA, originally dedicated to the victims of Hurricane Audrey in 1957)

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2018-19 \$1,917
- June Budget \$9,585
- June Income \$8,808
- June Expenses \$8,817
- July Budget \$7,668
- Collection July 6/7 \$1,643
- July Income to Date \$1,643

**Stewardship ** The good Samaritan was also a good steward, giving his time and his treasure to meet his neighbor’s need.  At the end of this familiar story, Jesus urges his hearers--and us--to go and do the same!

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 6:00p In memory of Jack Ellerbee/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tue 5:30p In memory of May DiTomasso
- Wed 5:30p       In memory of Becky Lancaster/Vedros
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Joe Scurria/Meadows                  Legacy Nursing Home
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Billy Hodge/family
- Sat 6:00p In memory of E.A.”Jim” Jumonville (birth on 21st)/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

#### FLOWERS FOR THE ALTAR are in memory of Jack Ellerbee and provided by his family

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 7/13 6:00p
  _ Lector: MA Gilfoil
  _ EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
- 7/14 9:00a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: B Sullivan \* EMHCs: B Smith and K Collins
- 7/20 6:00p
  _ Lector: M Rome
  _ EMHCs: A Farlow & L Magoun
- 7/21 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Marsh & C Wood
  _ Lector: C Marsh & W Sullivan \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Sue Rome (July 16), Bryan Kneipp (July 17), Caroline Marsh (July 19), Kendra Collins (July 21)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal, Geneva Russell

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Melissa Grady (D Wood), Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Yvonne Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
