---
title: The Third Sunday in Advent
date: "2019-12-15T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-12-15/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-violet.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Advent"
  - "Lætare Sunday"
  - "Christmas Tree"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

"The desert and the parched land will exult; the steppe will rejoice and bloom.”

Modern Protestant Christianity draws it’s philosophies from the so-called Enlightenment. Without a boring tangent into all that means, we should simply understand that the Enlightenment was an effort to “make man” the “center of all things.” And so before Martin Luther, nature was genuinely important in the life of the Christian. Nature expressed and revealed the Lord at work - so much so that even the very stones themselves had a part to play in revealing Jesus as the Messiah. According to Luther, though, nature is reduced to an afterthought because the world itself is “depraved” and unredeemable. That mistake of theology ultimately led to the mess of nature worship and the “person-ification” of pets and animals we’re surrounded by now.

Today is often called “Rose” Sunday. And it’s not just because most cultures and societies associate Roses with love or beauty that we celebrate this flower with special interest. Roses are objectively beautiful. They are - whether I like them or not - delightful to human senses. And that which delights the senses has a part to play in glorifying God… That doesn’t mean that everything which is pleasurable is morally good… Rather, it means that everything which makes us feel good is part of God’s revelation of Himself and is a kind of foretaste of Heaven. 

Because we are sinners, we can abuse these gifts and taint them. This is why the Lord Jesus came among us to sanctify the other parts of creation - the painful ones which cause suffering. Jesus, by His death and Resurrection, uses not only the delightful things of this world to reveal the Love of God, but also the evil ones. The smell and the beauty of the rose reveal God’s good plan for us while the thorns remind us that God loves us even to death and suffering. This is how St. Paul can say that all things work to the good for those who love the Lord. 

Today is meant to be a day of joy and we, as Christians, can and should see that joy not only in that which pleases us, but also in the love which God shows us by overcoming that which does not please us.


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


The story of the Christmas tree begins in England, where a young man named Winfrid decided to enter a Benedictine monastery over the objections of his parents. Winfrid grew in holiness and piety but yearned to leave the monastery and bring the light of Christ to the pagan Germans just as the monks had brought the Faith to England a century earlier. Winfrid connected with Pope Gregory II and got a commission to preach in what is now southern Germany. The Pope insisted, though, on changing his name from Winfrid to Boniface.

The newly renamed monk got right to it and had immediate success and after only a few years, he got called back to Rome where Pope Gregory wanted to name him Archbishop of the region. Boniface went to be ordained and returned to central Germany, fancy hat in hand, in 723 AD.

Everywhere he went, Boniface was loved and he converted village after village. He established monasteries and Churches. He was amazing and his reputation was well earned. 

The biggest obstacle he faced was in a small village called Geismar at the center of Germany in the region then called Thuringia. That area was named for the thunder god Thor, and the cult of worship for Thor was centered in this little village around a huge old oak tree which was known far and wide as the Thunder Oak. Despite the Marvel character being sweet and heroic, the actual religion of Thor is pretty barbaric. The big religious event each year was a human sacrifice made at the foot of this Thunder Oak tree. The people believed that the tree was protected by Thor and so when Boniface showed up to talk about Jesus, the people shooed him away. The many monks and converts that Boniface had made advised him just to leave Geismar alone… But, Boniface boldly walked into town on or around Christmas eve when the human sacrifice was about to take place. He strolled through the pagan gathering and picked up the axe that going to be used to kill the victim and he started chopping down the tree. The pagan revellers were so astounded, they just watched it happen.
As the Thunder Oak lay on the ground, Boniface walked to a small fir tree that grew in its shadow and delivered a now famous sermon:

>This little tree, a young child of the forest, shall be your holy tree tonight. It is the wood of peace... It is the sign of an endless life, for its leaves are evergreen. See how it points upward to heaven. Let this be called the tree of the Christ-child; gather about it, not in the wild wood, but in your own homes; there it will shelter no deeds of blood, but loving gifts and rites of kindness.

The pagan cult of Thor was effectively ended and the village of Geismar became Christian. The tradition of the Christmas Tree was born and when Queen Victoria decided that Christmas should be celebrated in England with more zest, the tree made its way through those Isles to our homes here in the US.

Here’s hoping your Christmas tree reminds you of the evergreen love of God and that it points your eyes and mind to the eternal joy of Heaven.


---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* Dec 22	Birthday Party for Jesus following 9 a.m. Mass
* Dec 24	Note that Christmas Eve Mass is at 6 p.m.
* Jan 4	“Burning of the Greens” following 5:30 p.m. Mass.  More info below….

## For Your Information:

ALTAR CANDLES… Anyone wishing to provide candles for the altar in honor of their loved one or in prayer for some intention may do so simply by asking. A small donation is recommended, but not required. A list of dates is in the sacristy and a date can be reserved up to one year in advance.

ANGEL TREE....Did you want to have a part in the Angel Tree but the time got away from you?  If so, please feel free to make a monetary contribution as we will be purchasing food items to make a basket to give each of the families for whom we are providing gifts.  Cash or checks can be put in the collection basket in an envelope indicating your wishes.  Dana Dukes is giving leadership to our Angel Tree project again this year. If you have questions, please contact her or the church office.

FLOWERS FOR CHRISTMAS...envelopes can be found at the entrance of Church.  Please indicate if you have a Special Intention, In Honor, In Memory.  Envelopes can be returned in the collection basket.

2020 STEWARDSHIP ENVELOPES AND CALENDARS …. can be found on the table at the entrance of church.  

BIRTHDAY PARTY FOR JESUS...will be held following the 9 a.m. Mass on Sunday, December 22, and all are invited to join the children for this festive event.  Kendra Collins will be giving leadership to the activity.  If you would like to assist, please contact Kendra or Father Ryan.

CHRISTMAS EVE MASS...will be celebrated at 6 P.M. as Father Ryan will need time to return from Delhi where he will have celebrated Mass at St. Theresa earlier in the afternoon.

BURNING OF THE GREENS...JANUARY 4, 2020...You may want to join in the annual Burning of the Greens Epiphany celebration on Saturday, January 4 following the 5:30 p.m. Mass.  Blessings of King Cakes and the Queens Soup will be a part of the activity.

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God for ever and ever.  Amen


---

## Our Return to the Lord

* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* November Budget $8,444
* November Income $8,535
* November Expenses $8,325
* December Budget $10,555
* Collection Dec 7/8 $ 1,905
* December Income to Date$ 3,389

**Stewardship** Each of us has his or her own role to play in the coming of the Kingdom of God.  John the Baptist was called to be the herald of the Messiah, preparing the way of the Lord. To what is the Lord calling me?

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Joseph and Louise Testa/Magoun
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
* Mon		NO MASS
* Tue	5:30p	In memory of John and Marie Johnson/family
* Wed	5:30p	In memory of Billy Hodge/family
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of Gus Gremshell
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of J.E. “Boyzie” Jumonville on birth anniversary/family
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Carroll Regan/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

* 12/14 5:30p
    - Lector: P Wilks
    - EMHCs: B Wilks & MA Gilfoil
* 12/15 9:00a
    - Servers: C Sullivan ,C Wood, MK Marsh
    - Lector: W Sullivan & Henry Ellerbee
    - EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
* 12/21 5:30p
    - Lector: M Rome
    - EMHCs: A Farlow & L Bullard
* 12/22 9:00a
    - Servers: P Collins, M Wood, E Kivett
    - Lector: J Howington
    - EMHCs: N & M Ernst
* 12/24 6:00p
    - Servers: C Sullivan, W Sullivan
    - Lector: C VanderVieren
    - EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
* 12/25 9:00a
    - Lector: Volunteer
    - EMHCs: Volunteers
* 12/28 5:30p
    - Lector: MA Gilfoil
    - EMHCs: C VanderVieren & M Rome
* 12/29 9:00a
    - Servers: C Marsh, H Ellerbee, K Ellerbee
    - Lector: D Ellerbee
    - EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins


---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Katherine Ernst Bedgood (Dec 14), Madeline Oliver (Dec 14), Johnny Gilfoil (Dec 15), Peggy Scurria (Dec 16), Bart Wood (Dec 19) 

**Happy Anniversary** Nap and MaryKathryn Book (Dec 14)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our recently deceased: Dr. Dale Magoun & Ms Virginia Caviness (Sister of Pat Bullard)

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal 

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Debbie Prine (Wilks), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.  

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
