---
title: The Feast of Christ the King
date: "2019-11-24T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-11-24/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Christ the King"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*"Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom."*

In the Bible - in the Jewish way of thinking - the only real King is God. Human Kings, like priests and prophets, have nothing in and of themselves which makes them special. It is only the Lord speaking and acting through Elijah that makes him a prophet. It is only the Lord working through Ezra that makes him a priest. And so when David becomes King and all the other kings of the Jews up through Herod, they are anointed as king in the exact same way that priests and prophets are anointed. There are prayers and then blessed oil is poured over their heads…

This all matters because being the Jews didn’t think of kings like the Romans or the Greeks or even Christians think of kings. The Jews calling out to Jesus on Mount Calvary didn’t really understand what was going on… They met in Jesus someone Who has authority in Himself! That’s a big deal. His authority didn’t come from military power or from an ancestral birthright… Jesus had authority in Himself. That’s why they looked upon Him crucified and knew that even death wouldn’t limit His authority or challenge His kingdom. From the outside looking in, this is on par with someone today calling up a former president Jimmy Carter and asking for political favors… It’s absurd. Perhaps, it’s more like praying to John F Kennedy for the same thing… It’s just, well, absurd.

Yet, Jesus’ kingship doesn’t flow from anything outside of Himself. His Kingdom is his by right. He doesn’t need to be anointed. He doesn’t need to be prayed over. He doesn’t need to be heralded or dressed in fine clothing - although, all of those things do happen for Jesus.

In the end, one of the oddest verses in the bible speaks volumes about this. When Jesus is condemned, Pilate has a sign made to hang over the cross. In three languages, the sign reads “Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews.” The Jewish priests see this and complain. They want the sign repainted to read “This one SAYS he is the king of the Jews.” Pilate retorts - Quod scripsi scripsi - “What I have written, I have written” (Jn 19:20-22).


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


When Vatican II began, Pope John XXIII was carried into St. Peter’s through the huge and crowded square on the Sedia Gestatoria - a huge, heavy, decorated chair meant to be carried on the shoulders of about twenty men. He was preceded by half a hundred altar servers and dozens of laymen dressed to the nines in medals and sashes and banners of all sorts. There were peacock feathers and a literal crown with three bands of gems symbolizing the Pope’s authority in the spiritual life, in the Church, and in the world. 

Within five years, all of that was gone and Pope Paul VI had summarily dismissed 1000 years of tradition in the name of his newly invented idea of “Noble Roman Simplicity.” It was a terrible experiment that can never really be undone.

The problem with his experiment is not that he was too humble to be carried in a big chair - it was that he was too arrogant. The chair was never about HIM. The crown was never about HIM. And the fact that he couldn’t deal with his own discomfort standing as the Vicar of Jesus Christ the King stands forever to his shame as an icon of his pride. He was too uncomfortable in his skin to let Jesus be praised in Him.

The same problem caused our disastrous liturgical experiments of the last 75 years. Cheap, ugly vestments… Awful primitivist art… Bland, meaningless modern architecture… All of it touting the virtue of simplicity and humility and the desire not to distract from Jesus, Himself. But all of it directing attention to one person - the priest himself. Now, it’s the Fr. Bob hour...

Priests and bishops didn’t believe the faithful were ABLE to grow in the knowledge and love of God through the Latin Mass. These priests projected their own issues onto others. so the great Mass of St. Francis and St. Ignatius and St. Theresa of Avila was replaced with the Fr. Bob show in which the priest is the real center of attention and around which a cult of personality either develops or the priest must be moved.

And that change reveals the real reason that we had the fancy dress and the fancy architecture and the fancy everything else - it’s because JESUS IS KING. He deserves the very, very best we can offer. And the more seriously we treat Him as King, the more others will see Him that way. The more we are casual, the more they will presume He is not deserving of reverential awe… 

It’s no accident that before the bishop said Mass in the Traditional form, he would process in with loads of fancy… A huge cape, gloves, the whole nine yards. And then, in view of the people, he would be stripped of all that and dressed - by others - in comparatively simple vesture. It was a potent symbol for him and for everyone that none of this was about Bp. so and so, it’s about Jesus.

The first time someone bought my meal just because I was a priest was AWFUL. I felt uncomfortable and self-conscious. Not because I was humble but because I was prideful. I didn’t want to be a servant of Jesus who accepted the gift on my master’s behalf - I wanted to be what I wanted to be. But that’s not our right. We are servants of Jesus even when that makes us uncomfortable and eclipses who we want to be.


---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* Dec 8	Christmas on the Bayou - crafts, parade, music program, fireworks
* Dec 10	Advent Retreat given by Father Dale Mead following 5:30 p.m. Mass
* Dec 22	Birthday Party for Jesus following 9 a.m. Mass

## For Your Information:

CHRISTMAS PARTY ON THE BAYOU RAFFLE...The Bar Cart  consisting of holiday items, foods, and beverages which is being raffled with a drawing around December 15, is on display at Tensas State Bank.   

ANGEL TREE... you have the opportunity to select Angels that you may want to purchase gifts for during the Christmas season.  The remaining Angels can be found in the church foyer.  Dana Dukes is giving leadership to our Angel Tree project again this year. If you have questions, please contact her or the church office.

CHRISTMAS ON THE BAYOU …. DEC 8 … Craftsmen and vendors will be at the Courthouse lawn from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.,the parade is scheduled for 4 p.m., and the Christmas Choir Concert is at 6 p.m. at First Baptist Church, followed by fireworks on the Bayou at 7:15 p.m.  Father Ryan is the Narrator for the Choir Concert and choir members include Michael Lancaster, Mike Rome, MaryKathryn Book and Patty Watts.  The Grand Marshall for this year’s parade is Mike Rome.

ADVENT MISSION … DECEMBER 10 … following 5:30 p.m. Mass.  Father Dale Meade, St Mary Catholic Church, Winnsboro, will be our presenter. 

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God for ever and ever.  Amen

SAINTS ALIVE...ANGELS AT WORK….the Potluck Brunch last Sunday was a great success and was enjoyed by a large crowd.  Many thanks to the Fourth Quarter Social group!!!




---

## Our Return to the Lord


* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* October Budget $8,444
* October Income $8,556
* October Expenses $8,475
* November Budget $8,444
* Collection November 16/17 $1,389
* November Income to Date $6,951


**Stewardship** Today we celebrate Christ the King and are reminded that all was created through Him and for Him.  Does my stewardship of the blessings entrusted to me give evidence that Christ is Lord of my life.


---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Bitsy Adams Weiner/Regan
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
* Mon		NO MASS
* Tue	5:30p	In memory of John and Marie Johnson/family
* Wed	5:30p	In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/Weaver
* Thu		NO MASS as Father Ryan is away
* Fri		NO MASS as Father Ryan is away
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Becky Lancaster/S Placke
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Sug Regan

## Assistants at Holy Mass


* 11/23 5:30p
    - Lector: C VanderVieren
    - EMHCs: A Farlow & L Bullard
* 11/24 9:00a
    - Acolytes: P Collins & C Wood
    - Lector: D Ellerbee
    - EMHCs: N & M Ernst
* 11/30 5:30p
    - Lector: MA Gilfoil
    - EMHCs: L Magoun & M Rome
* 12/1 9:00a
    - Lector: A Oliver
    - EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
* 12/7 5:30p
    - Lector: A Farlow
    - EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
* 12/8 9:00a
    - Lector: B Sullivan
    - EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Monique Florence (Nov 25), Frances Kennedy (Nov 29), Delia Trichell (Nov 29), Lance Marsh (Nov 30)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal 

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Debbie Prine (Wilks), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.  

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
