---
title: The Second Sunday in Lent
date: "2019-03-17T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-03-17/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-violet.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“Behold, two men were conversing with him, Moses and Elijah, who appeared in glory and spoke of his exodus”_

The Jews were BIG on history and tradition. Remember that God called Himself the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob… The symbolism of the Transfiguration is about placing Jesus in the context of His work…
Moses represents The Law. For the Jews, this is God’s word. This is the covenant - the contract - that they have with God for good weather, happy families and being remembered by future generations. The Law is sacrosanct, it is holy and it is unquestionable. Jesus speaks with Moses as an equal and thus Jesus is placed in the context of a lawgiver.

Elijah represents the Prophets. The Prophets are the interpreters of the Law and the ones who correct misinterpretations. When the Jews lose battles, have unhappy family lives and start to think their nation may be destroyed and their lives unremembered, they look for a prophet to tell them what they’re doing wrong. Most of the Jews were illiterate, so they didn’t really have a way to read the text for themselves and, thus, hold the higher-ups accountable. They just had to believe that the folks in charge acted in good will. The prophets showed up to kick butt and chew bubble gum when the leaders of Israel lost their own way. Jesus speaks with Elijah as an equal as well and so Jesus is placed in the context of both a miracle worker and a corrector of leaders.

Then, when His own clothes glow, Jesus is seen to be something more than just a lawgiver and a divine interpreter of the law, He is something which surpasses either. He is something more than the law… He is something more than the old covenant between God and Moses.

Into this context, St. Luke (a disciple of Paul) begins to speak about Jesus’ exodus… “Exodus” brings the idea of revolution and new covenant to mind and in this context, we can see the Transfiguration is all Peter, James and John need to see to know that something big and miraculous which is going to overshadow the law and include a new covenant like the one in which the Jews received the 10 Commandments - but bigger...

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

Last week at Sunday Morning Catechism, rather than give my prepared talk, I opted to open the floor for questions. Partly, this was because of Bp. Talley’s somewhat sudden transition. But it was also a sign of my need for direction from you about what we, as a community, need to grow.

I’m a professional Catholic. For 20 years, I have been fully immersed in my own personal journey of Faith, in specific tools and techniques for evangelization, teaching, counseling and directing people toward the Lord and His Church. And while that is helpful in that it gives me a lot of tools and a lot of skills and some interesting perspective, it also limits my capacity to see things from the point of view of people who have not spent the last 20 years doing that. Even if I were brand new, I wouldn’t have grown up in Tallulah. I wouldn’t have the experience of raising kids here and working here. My personal sense of identity includes a strong component of the gulf south and my own ancestry includes cajun, redneck and yankee. Having lived here a few years, I don’t get the sense that any of those fits very smoothly into what it means to be a native of the ArkLaMiss. There are lots of things about growing in the knowledge and love of God here in Tallulah which are unique and special to this place just as there are lots of things universal to growing in the knowledge and love of God which don’t depend on where you live or what language you speak. But at a certain point, the more effective tools are the more specific tools and I can’t employ those without good, honest input and direction from YOU - the good people of this part of the world. And so, I opened the floor for questions and I’m planning to do it again. In the same way, the heart of each of our parish council meetings is the open discussion. I want people to come to that meeting ready to ask tough questions or raise issues or make suggestions or provide criticism.

I know that not every priest feels this way. I know that many of the priests who have served here have been of the mind that their years of school makes them magically all-knowing… But I’m not one of those guys and I would love and appreciate your thoughts. I want to get calls, texts and emails asking tough questions. I want you to tell me that my sermon was fine, but you really wanted to hear about this or that topic. I want you to come to the parish council meeting whether you’re a member or not and raise your concerns and your suggestions. I want you to know that the Church is here for you and that She has the answers…

Our parish council meets monthly (with a few exceptions) on the third Tuesday of the month. We meet this week, actually, on the 19th. We meet in the hall after the 5:30p Mass. While each month has a specific topic for open discussion, the meeting is free-form enough that we can adjust as needed. We also have some house-keeping items about our grounds and parish census and things like that…

Whether you come to the meeting, ask a member to be your proxy, or you just call or text me directly, PLEASE feel free to ask any question you like - it’s a help to me as it’s a help to you!

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* March 19 Pastoral Council meeting - Following 5:30 p.m. Mass - Church Hall
* March 22 Lenten Devotions - Mass and Stations of the Cross followed by Simple Soup & Movie
* Mar 26–28 Lenten Series: Virtues We Need to Get to Heaven
* April 13 Palm Saturday Bake Sale - Church Hall - 10 a.m. to noon
* April 21 Easter Egg Hunt - Church grounds - 10 a.m.

## For Your Information:

PASTORAL COUNCIL MEETING...will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, MARCH 19,  at 6:00 p.m(after 5:30 p.m. Mass) in the Church Center.  All members are requested to make special effort to attend.  Appointed members of the Council: Josephine Hodge, Michael Lancaster, Ginny Marsh, Terry Murphy, Beth Sullivan and Blanche Wilks.  Appointed as Trustees by the Bishop are Brian Johnson and Dale Magoun. Appointed by the pastor to serve as Finance Council Chair is Darryl Ellerbee.  Additionally, serving on the Council in an ex-officio capacity as President of the Altar Society will be Cathy VanderVieren. Parishioners are encouraged to attend contribute to the discussions.

LENTEN SERIES...Virtues We Need to Get to Heaven...March 26-28 in Hall following 5:30 p.m. Mass.

PALM SATURDAY BAKE SALE...in the Church Hall on April 13.  All are requested to assist with this event as it is the signature fund raising event for the Altar Society.  There will be a list at the entrance of church for your convenience in listing what dishes you plan to provide.  Please help spread the word of the event among your friends and co-workers.

EASTER FLOWERS...envelopes are available at the entrance of church if you would like to contribute to the decorations and lilies for Holy Week and Easter.  Pick up an envelope, indicate for whom you are donating and if it is In Honor or In Memory, and return in the collection basket.

EASTER EGG HUNT….will be on Holy Saturday, April 21, at 10 a.m. on the church grounds.  Stephenie Marsh and Kate Copes will give leadership to this event. Stay tuned to learn how you can help!

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2018-19 \$1,917
- February Budget \$7,668
- February Income \$10,845
- February Expenses \$9,324
- March Budget \$9,585
- Collection March 9/10 \$1,795
- March Income to Date \$ 5,027

**Stewardship ** Peter, James, and John wanted to build a “booth” for Jesus and just stay on the mountain where His transfiguration took place.  But, the Son of God, the Chosen One knew that He must instead keep moving toward His Crucifixion. We, too, must rise from worship and do what we can to hasten the coming of the Kingdom.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Becky Lancaster/Bullard
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tues 5:30p In memory of Darryl Ellerbee, Sr on birth anniversary/family
- Wed 5:30p In memory of Billy Hodge/family
- Thurs 9:00a NO MASS (Priests Meeting in Alexandria)
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Norman Ernst/family
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/Harris
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 3/16 5:30p
  _ Servers:
  _ Lector: M Rome \* EMHCs: A Farlow & C VanderVieren
- 3/17 9:30a
  _ Servers: C Sullivan
  _ Lector: Emmy Lu & Henry \* EMHCs: K Collins & B Smith
- 3/23 5:30p
  _ Lector: C VanderVieren
  _ EMHCs: L Magoun & A Keene
- 3/24 9:30a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan & A Collins
  _ Lector: D Ellerbee \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 3/30 5:30p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: P & B Wilks
- 3/31 9:30a
  _ Servers: EL & C Marsh
  _ Lector: B Sullivan \* EMHCs: K Collins & B Smith

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Mary Trichell (March 16), Andy Nguyen (March 17), Alyssa Oliver (March 17), Angel Farlow (March 20)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal, Geneva Russell
Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Kay Collins, Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, JoAnn Phillips Finn (Hodge), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Kathleen Oliver, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
