---
title: The Fifth Sunday of Easter
date: "2019-05-19T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-05-19/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-white.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“Then I, John, saw a new heaven and a new earth. The former heaven and the former earth had passed away, and the sea was no more.”_

Of all the specific details to mention, John sees that the sea is no more… Well, that harkens back to the very beginning. Genesis begins “In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep; and the Spirit of God was moving over the face of the waters.” The water is a really big deal for the Jews. Remember that these folks started out as desert nomads - so water is the symbol of life. Fish was also a major food source for the Jews and fishing was a serious industry and source of income. But the sea was also a symbol of the lack of human control and even of chaos. Anyone who’s been on a boat anywhere near a storm knows how scary that is. And so the sea is both a symbol of life and of human weakness.

When John says the sea was no more - he’s making a loaded statement. For one, he was saying that these desert people wouldn’t need water or food in heaven - effectively meaning that the source of life has somehow changed. He’s also implying that the chaos which the Holy Spirit must impose order upon is gone. The Holy Spirit, then, is not merely bringing order to chaos, but is now doing something different.

John is seeing this vision after he’s written his Gospel. And so John, chapter 1 is known to him. In John 1, St. John writes a mystical understanding of the creation of the world and the climax of that chapter is when “the son of man became flesh and dwelt among us.” Which is exactly what follows in today’s second reading in which St. John says “Behold, God's dwelling is with the human race.”

This vision of St. John is a deeply connected message about how the very foundations of the world are going to be replaced by this New Jerusalem which will follow Heavenly rules which are as different from this world as we understand it as is reasonably possible.

As with all of John’s visions, this one ties back to the one who sits on the throne. The throne, of course, is the throne of Jesus - the lamb - who is at the center of Heaven.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

And so summer begins… We’re going to be tempted to take full advantage of our free time. To ski, to fish, to travel, to cook, to eat, to play…

But what about rest? What about spending some time with ourselves? What about risking boredom - even for a bit - to allow re-creation. Leisure is actually a Christian virtue of sorts. It’s an essential habit. But leisure has a few requirements. One, it has no purpose. You can’t really rest if you’re working to accomplish something. Two, it requires a certain degree of nothingness. You can’t really recreate on the side. You need to put aside screens, fantasy leagues, sporting events, work and even kids. Vacation can be restful, but it’s not automatically so. Three, it’s more valuable than you think… Leisure - like sleep - is part of sanity. It allows the thoughts that we’ve put on the back burner to come forward, be processed and be put away.

For me, this is usually reading something mindless with sandals on my feet somewhere quiet. Over Easter, I found great rest in rebuilding a gigantic chicken coup for my parents. I also tend to use my long drives to Alexandria to leave the radio off and let my mind wander. None of these are perfect leisure, of course. I also have to just sit sometimes. And make my way through the boredom of doing nothing to the other side of imagination and creativity.

It’s one thing to paint or write poetry because I want to have my art hung or my poetry published. It’s another to do something creative just to relax. That’s why it’s hard to be very specific with leisure - by it’s nature, it’s fluid and even random.

What works to make me feel recreated one week may not work the next time. Sometimes I just want to be creative, another time I find tidying up restful and then the next time I’ll finish my morning prayers and just take a deep breath and think or a book or a story or a fairy tale will come to mind and I’ll watch it play out in my mind…

Other folks tell me that everything from fishing to cooking to dancing are recreational. The most important factor is that it’s genuinely restful. We all know the frustration of getting home from a trip or vacation and being totally exhausted. We all know that something which should be fun like a sporting event can end up being more stressful than relaxing.

The thing to remember is that recreation is not just a nice thing to get when you can - it’s essential for our sanity and our health. There’s nothing more dangerous to our physical health than stress. But our spiritual lives depend upon our ability to quiet our minds and pray. Stress prohibits that and makes prayer difficult, if not impossible. The ubiquity of screens, texts, phone calls and the expectation that we are constantly available has done more damage to our spiritual lives than we can ever know. One of the very best tools that we have for prayer is not a complicated strategy of praying - it’s recreation that makes turning the heart and mind to God something effortless and natural as it should be.

For the sake of our sanity and our spiritual health, make this summer recreational and not just fun!

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* May 21 Pastoral Council Meeting – Parish Hall – following 5:30 p.m. Mass
* June 23 Second Quarter Potluck Social following 9:30 a.m. Mass in Church Hall.  Plan to attend

## For Your Information:

As mentioned before, from June through September, Fr. Peter K will be out of the country and Fr. Ryan will have all the Masses at both of his Churches as well as here at St. Edward. That schedule will be:

Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
Sun. 9am - Tallulah
Sun. 11:15am - St. Joseph

PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, MAY 21,  at 6:00 p.m (after 5:30 p.m. Mass) in the Church Center.   Appointed members of the Council:  Josephine Hodge, Michael Lancaster, Ginny Marsh, Terry Murphy, Beth Sullivan and Blanche Wilks.  Appointed as Trustees by the Bishop are Brian Johnson and Dale Magoun. Appointed by the pastor to serve as Finance Council Chair is Darryl Ellerbee.  Additionally, serving on the Council in an ex-officio capacity as President of the Altar Society will be Cathy VanderVieren. All members are requested to make special effort to attend.  Parishioners are encouraged to attend contribute to the discussions.

SECOND QUARTER POTLUCK SOCIAL … June 23 following 9:30 a.m. Mass.  Mark your calendar and plan to attend.  
 Second Quarter (April, May, June) Social Committee - Pat and Libby Bullard, Elizabeth Crothers, Angel Farlow, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, MaryAnne Gilfoil, Terry and Andy Hall, Isabell Hernandez, Ann Keene, Andy Nguyen, Bobby Reynolds, Jim and Frances Roemer, Joe Storey, Delia Trichell, and Cathy VanderVieren

SAINTS ALIVE, ANGELS AT WORK...Last Sunday’s reception honoring our graduating Seniors was delightful thanks to the efforts of several folks with decorations, food and drink!  Those who assisted are appreciated!!

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2018-19 \$1,917
- April Budget \$7,668
- April Income \$9,832
- April Expenses \$7,671
- May Budget \$7,668
- Collection May 11/12 \$1,936
- May Income to Date \$4,440

**Stewardship ** “In todays’s Gospel, Jesus gives His disciples--and us--a new commandment:  “Love one another.” Good stewards who spend their time and talents in service to others are well on their way to fulfilling this commandment.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Becky Lancaster/Laurent
- Sun 11:15a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tues 5:30p In memory of Billy Hodge/family
- Wed 5:30p In memory of Michael Mills/family
- Thurs 9:00a In memory of Rosa Gremshell                            Legacy Nursing Home
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Becky Lancaster/Fulton
- Sat 5:30p In memory of John and Marie Johnson/family
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Blanche and Prentiss Wilks

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 5/18 5:30p
  _ Lector: M Rome
  _ EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
- 5/19 11:15a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan/C Wood
  _ Lector: P Collins & M Wood \* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
- 5/25 5:30p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: C VanderVieren & L Bullard
- 5/26 9:30a
  _ Servers: P Collins/M Wood
  _ Lector: A Oliver \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 6/1 6:00p
  _ Lector: C VanderVieren
  _ EMHCs: P & B Wilks
- 5/31 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Sullivan & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: K Collins \* EMHCs: B Smith & A Keene

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Dave Collins (May 24)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal, Geneva Russell

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Kay Collins, Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Kathleen Oliver, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
