---
title: The Fourth Sunday in Advent & Christmas
date: "2019-12-22T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-12-22/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Advent"
  - "Christmas"
  - 

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*"This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about.”*

It’s tempting at this time of year with our current news media and entertainment industry to dismiss the more supernatural parts of the birth and young life of Jesus. Given the constant lies coming from congress, it’s tempting to assume that anyone who has anything to say that cannot be corroborated by outside evidence is suspect… In reality, though, there is a great deal of quality evidence to support these parts of the story, not the least of which is the fact St. Paul and St. Luke - his secretary - almost certainly met the Blessed Virgin Mary at some point and collected the necessary details from Her personally. 

What’s more, the Jews didn’t have the same sense of looseness with truth that we do now… All Jews grew up with the stories of the Bible as their main moral compass, education and entertainment. They weren’t great traders or scholars and so they wouldn’t have had other stories to tell or songs to sing than what we now call the Old Testament. That kind of insular living creates an incredibly strong continuity between thought, faith and lifestyle. Lying was among the greatest sins and all liars in the Old Testament are bad people who get their comeuppance - hard. The idea that the biblical authors would have lied or even stretched the truth is much harder to believe for a Jew than for a Greek or a Roman. 

In reality, the birth and young life of Jesus was chock full of miracles, supernatural revelations and unlooked-for events (like the Magi). Like the entire life of Jesus, the Lord brought about events not merely to move a plot forward, but to stand as symbols and signs for a thousand generations of Christians from every walk of life and way of thinking that we can imagine. None of that happens by accident. All through history, the Lord worked remarkable signs and wonders - many of which are recorded far beyond the writings of faith. Most recently, Our Lady’s great miracle at Fatima is a sound reminder of the power of the Lord in the real, visible world.

To paraphrase my favorite author: needless were none of the deeds of Jesus in life or death. 


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

Welcome to those who are visiting or are back from school! So many of our Christmas songs share the sentiment that Christmas is the time of year for being with the ones that you love. And there’s a lot of truth to that. Christmas is deeply tied to family - the feast of the Nativity is really the feast of the establishment of the Holy Family. We know from science and from faith that Jesus’ incarnation takes place at his conception in the womb of the Blessed Virgin at the Annunciation. 

And family is worth thinking about this time of year… Now more than ever, families are dissolving. Sharp disagreements between generations over ideologies and politics… The radical cultural change in which manners and courtesy and humility toward one’s elders are devalued… The dangerous idea that family isn’t about blood, but about those you choose… Even the oft-disproven idea that nothing matters except our choices is dissolving the single most value and important social construct that we have in our world. The family isn’t just an accident of time or place. It’s not just something that we choose or select. The family is the very living image of God, Himself. It’s an image of the Holy Trinity.

The Book of Genesis paints a fascinating and confusing picture of creation. It says “Let us make man in our image, after our likeness… So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him; male and female he created them.” At first, that’s simple: God made us like Himself. Easy peasy. But notice all the confusing pronouns and verb agreements… God refers to Himself in the plural - “let us… our likeness.” And He refers to mankind in both the singular and in the plural. “He created him… male and female He created them…” That’s not just bad English - it’s intentional in the original Hebrew.

God is one and singular, but He is not alone. There is only one God and yet He exists - insofar as we can comprehend His existence - as three divine persons: the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. To be made in His image and likeness is to be an individual and a part of a deliberate, ordered, necessary communion. I am me, but I’m also part of a family. I may live in another town. I may vote differently, think differently, believe differently, disagree with grandma and even hate my brother or my uncle or - gasp - the family goldfish Smiley… but I’m still part of that family.
What’s more, the Virtue of Faith and the Virtue of Hope remind me that God doesn’t do anything by accident. I’m not part of my family just because… They are the stage upon which my life will play out. They made me who I am, for better or worse. 

Of course, all families are unique and each and every one will, from time to time, put the fun in dysfunctional… But none of that is accidental. Our love, like God’s love, isn’t simple or easy or clean… And yet we know as human beings that love is worth it. Real love is high and low, it’s passionate and mundane, it’s big and it’s little, it’s heavy and it’s light. So is the love of a family.

And so I hope and pray this Christmas is all of those things and, in being those things, it will be an opportunity for not just joy, but for growth and improvement as individuals and as families.

**Merry Christmas!**


---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* Dec 22	Birthday Party for Jesus following 9 a.m. Mass
* Dec 24	Note that Christmas Eve Mass is at 6 p.m.
* Dec 31/Jan 1	Solemnity of Mary, the Holy Mother of God (Holy Day of Obligation) see schedule below
* Jan 4	“Burning of the Greens” following 5:30 p.m. Mass.  More info below…

## For Your Information:

BIRTHDAY PARTY FOR JESUS...will be held following the 9 a.m. Mass this weekend, December 22, and all are invited to join the children for this festive event.  Kendra Collins has given leadership to the activity.  

CHRISTMAS EVE MASS...will be celebrated at 6 P.M. as Father Ryan will need time to return from Delhi where he will have celebrated Mass at St. Theresa earlier in the afternoon.

NO MASS ON DECEMBER 25-27 as Father Ryan will be away.

MASS SCHEDULE FOR THE SOLEMNITY OF MARY, THE MOTHER OF GOD ( a HOLY DAY OF OBLIGATION and all Catholics are obliged to attend Mass).….will be a 5:30 p.m. Mass on December 31, 2019 at St Edward or a 6 p.m. Mass on January 1, 2020 at St Theresa in Delhi or a church of your choice in Vicksburg.

BURNING OF THE GREENS...JANUARY 4, 2020...You may want to join in the annual Burning of the Greens Epiphany celebration on Saturday, January 4 following the 5:30 p.m. Mass.  Blessings of King Cakes and the Queens Soup will be a part of the activity.

CHRISTMAS PARTY ON THE BAYOU RAFFLE...the drawing was held following Mass on December 15 and was won by Teddy Oliver.  Thanks to the hard work of everyone who contributed to this effort, we now have $5,165 which is applied to the purchase of the adjoining property! GREAT job.

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God for ever and ever.  Amen


---

## Our Return to the Lord

* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* November Budget $8,444
* November Income $8,535
* November Expenses $8,325
* December Budget $10,555
* Collection Dec 14/15 $ 2,511
* December Income to Date $ 5,900

**Stewardship** When he discovered that Mary was with child, Josephresolved to end their engagement with as little disgraces as possible.  But obedient to the voice of God, he changed those plans and became instead the protector of the child Jesus and His mother Mary.  God, Grant that I may be as open to the leading of the Holy Spirit! 

*Second Collection* at Christmas is for Church Vocations.


---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Carroll Regan/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
* Mon	NO MASS
* Tue	6:00p	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish - Christmas Eve
* Wed	7:00a	For Stacy Humphries Mestayer     Traditional Latin Mass
* Wed	9:00a	In memory of Eva Reynolds/Birth/family  -  Christmas Day
* Thu  NO MASS as Father Ryan is away
* Fri	NO MASS as Father Ryan is away
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Paul VanderVieren death anniversary/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning in memory of Eva Reynolds whose birth anniversary is Dec 25

## Assistants at Holy Mass


* 12/21 5:30p
    - Lector: M Rome 
    - EMHCs: A Farlow & L Bullard
* 12/22 9:00a
    - Servers: P Collins, M Wood, E Kivett
    - Lector: J Howington
    - EMHCs: N & M Ernst
* 12/24 6:00p
    - Servers: W & C Sullivan
    - Lector: C VanderVieren
    - EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
* 12/25 9:00a
    - Servers: None
    - Lector: Volunteer
    - EMHCs: Volunteers
* 12/28 5:30p
    - Lector: MA Gilfoil
    - EMHCs: C VanderVieren & M Rome
* 12/29 9:00a
    - Servers: C Marsh, H Ellerbee, K Ellerbee
    - Lector: D Ellerbee
    - EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins


---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Robbie Kivett (Dec 25), Emmy Lou Marsh (Dec 27), Emory Dukes (Dec 30)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal 

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Debbie Prine (Wilks), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.  

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
