---
title: The 29th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-10-20T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-10-20/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“So Joshua did as Moses told him: he engaged Amalek in battle. As long as Moses kept his hands raised up, Israel had the better of the fight, but when he let his hands rest, Amalek had the better of the fight. Moses' hands, however, grew tired; so they put a rock in place for him to sit on. Aaron and Hur supported his hands, so that his hands remained steady till sunset. And Joshua mowed down Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword.”_

Since the 1960s or so, Christians have believed two very, very non-Biblical errors about God’s will for us. Number one: many Christians wrongly believe that war, battle and the death associated with them are always wrong. Number two: many Christians wrongly believe that the body plays no real role in prayer.

The second error comes from Protestantism which believes wrongly that faith alone is necessary for salvation and that the spiritual matters while the physical does not. That’s why most Protestants don’t believe that personal sin matters and it’s why liberals who call themselves Catholics believe that any mention of personal sin is “fire and brimstone” and that any teaching other than “Jesus loves me” will surely turn people away from Jesus.

The first error, though, is harder to pin down. The biggest difference between war now and war then is Nuclear weapons. A war between two super-power nowadays can get much, much worse than a world war a century ago. Still, that doesn’t mean that that the sacrifice of lives for a moral purpose or cause is itself immoral. Pacifism, as a system of belief, is not consistent with the Bible or with Christianity. There’s a lot more to say about this than I can say in 250 words, but it’s worth being on guard against the common modern thinking that we can set aside Biblical ideas because they are somehow out of date. It’s also important to remember that Human Nature never changes and that our modern world is not morally superior to our ancestors… We may have iPads, but we also legally murder our own children and politicize the murders of innocents to pass legislation or to gain power. We’re not so advanced as we might think.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

The priests of the Diocese will be on retreat this week at Maryhill in Pineville. The preacher of the retreat is a nationally renowned expert on preaching and his talks will cover all sorts of topics that priests have to keep in mind as they preach the Gospel.
One could ask why priests need a retreat? At least in the Diocese of Alexandria, we have mostly smaller parishes and most of our priests are not so busy that they can’t find time daily for prayer and study. But a retreat is something different. A retreat is more than a seminar for continuing education and more than a vacation or an opportunity to rest. It’s meant to be a time for opening one’s heart to the Lord in an ongoing and vulnerable way. That’s not usually possible when we have other things on our minds or on our schedules.

For years in this Diocese, we had parish retreats where men and women could get away for a weekend and be with the Lord in a deliberate and honest way. Those of us from St. Edward who have been on retreat in years’ past know that it can be such a blessing and a kickstart to a new chapter in one’s spiritual life. While our parish retreats were done away with definitively by Bp. Herzog, the so-called ACTS retreats have been popular for the past two or three years for anyone who might be interested in attending.

In Louisiana, many of us will find that our hunting and fishing outings give us a retreat-like experience for a few hours. We’re alone. It’s quiet. Hopefully, we’ve silenced the phone and taken our rosary or a bible or a prayer book from the shelf in the parish hall and we use our time in nature to ask the Lord to guide, to direct, to heal, to encourage and to correct us. Hopefully, we recognize that the busyness of our lives is far more dangerous than carbs or even than texting behind the wheel. Constant stimulation and excess standing obligations are scientifically proven to shorten our lives and, certainly, to reduce our sanity.

I’ll be away this week, praying, listening and asking the Lord to make me a better pastor to all of you. I hope you’ll remember me and my brother priests in your prayers - but I also hope you’ll think about some ways that you can make a day or an afternoon a kind of mini-retreat in the context of your day-to-day life…

God is so good to us. He has made us southerners. He has given us the sanity of a small-town to live in. He has given us a close Catholic community where we have to choose to live our faith - it’s not easy and it’s not automatic. That’s a gift that too many “cultural Catholics” don’t have.

On a somewhat separate note, I want to remind everyone that I am VERY open to criticism about my preaching - style and content. This week, I’ll have a lot of time to think about preaching and if anyone has some thoughts that could help me improve - PLEASE feel free to share them! Preaching isn’t for me, it’s for you. I can’t improve without a sense of what’s working and not working for you. So feel free to speak up!

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

- Oct 21-24 Clergy Retreat - No Mass on Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday
- Nov 1 All Saints Day - a Holy Day of Obligation. Mass will be at 5:30 p.m.
- Nov 2 All Souls Day - Blessing of Cemeteries will be at 10 a.m.
- Nov 2 Work Day for tree trimming, etc on the newly acquired property
- Nov 3 Parade of Saints, our children participating, at 9 a.m. Mass
- Nov 17 Potluck Brunch following 9 a.m. Mass - Fourth Quarter committee

## For Your Information:

Our current Mass schedule is (and hopefully, will be for a good long while):

- Sat. 5:30pm - Holy Mass
- Sun. 9am - Holy Mass in Tallulah
- Sun. 10am - Sunday Morning Catechism
- Sun. 11:15am - Holy Mass in Delhi

NOVEMBER… NEW ALTAR SERVER TRAINING… those children who have made their First Communion and are interested in becoming altar servers will have the opportunity to have training. Parents should contact Father Ryan for arranging a schedule that is mutually convenient.

ALL SAINTS’/ALL SOULS’…All Saints’ Day is a HOLY DAY OF OBLIGATION and ALL Catholics are required to attend Mass. Due to Father Ryan’s schedule for two churches, the Mass at St Edward will be on Thursday, November 1 at 5:30 p.m. or on Friday at the Olive Branch (now LNC) at 9:00. You may want to look at your calendar in advance if the St. Edward time is not convenient and plan to go to Delhi (St Theresa) on Friday at 5:30 p.m. or check on a Vicksburg Mass time.

On All Souls’ Day, Father Ryan will go to the Tallulah cemeteries for 10 a.m. Blessing of the Graves.

PARADE OF SAINTS...Our children will participate in a Parade of Saints at the 9 a.m. Mass on Sunday. That is also the end of Daylight Savings Time and the time will “fall back” an hour so you will want to mark your calendars!

POTLUCK BRUNCH SOCIAL..SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 17, following Mass to celebrate Fall and Thanksgiving!!!! Check out your recipes for your favorite dish and plan to join in this Faith Family celebration for our many blessings. Setting up for the event will be the Fourth Quarter (Oct, Nov, Dec) Social Committee- Dorothy Dyer, Leslye Ellerbee, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, Sherry Lynn and Timmy Harris, Josephine Hodge, Michael Lancaster, Dale and Louise Magoun, Billy and Ginny Marsh, William and Sharyn Marsh, Hannah McCartney, Sug Regan, Skeeter and Blanche Wilks, Robert Wood, Edward and Margaret Yerger.

ANGEL TREE..Dana Dukes will be giving leadership to our Angel Tree project again this year. If you know of a family that you feel is needy and deserving of being nominated, please advise our church office or Dana. More information to follow….

PRAYER FOR HURRICANE SEASON… Our Father in heaven, through the powerful intercession of Our Lady of Prompt Succor, spare us from all harm during this hurricane season, and protect us and our homes from all disasters of nature. Our Lady of Prompt Succor, hasten to our help. Amen

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide. In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors. In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church. We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the HolySpirit, one God for ever and ever. Amen

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 \$2,111
- September Budget \$8,444
- September Income \$8,049
- September Expenses \$8,147
- October Budget \$8,444
- Collection October 12/13 \$2,870
- October Income to Date \$5,406

**Stewardship** Today’s Gospel calls ALL of us - not just the apostles - to “go...and make disciples.” If we cannot actually go to the missions, we can answer Jesus’ call by giving generously of our prayers and financial resources to support those who can and do.

**World Mission Sunday**... second collection this weekend (Oct 20)...funds raised support the mission dioceses (St Edward and Diocese of Alexandria are considered “Mission”) of the Catholic Church for catechetical programs, seminaries, the work of Religious communities, and needed buildings such as schools, chapels and churches.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Curley Mills (death anniversary on 21st)/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tue Clergy Retreat
- Wed Clergy Retreat
- Thu Clergy Retreat
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Lillie “Mame” Jumonville/family
- Sat 5:30p For the Magoun Family Special Intention - St Jude
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 10/19 6:00p
  - Lector: M Rome
  - EMHCs: C VanderVieren & L Magoun
- 10/20 9:00a
  - Servers: C Sullivan & M Wood
  - Lector: P Collins/M Wood
  - EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
- 10/26 5:30p
  - Lector: C VanderVieren
  - EMHCs: A Farlow/L Bullard
- 10/27 9:00a
  - Servers: P Collins & H Ellerbee
  - Lector: D Ellerbee
  - EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Tori Kivett (Oct 25)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), Toby Lepley (Keene), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Ted Osborne, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Debbie Prine (Wilks), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart), Max Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
