---
title: The 22nd Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-09-01T12:00:00.000Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-09-01/"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
description: ""
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
---

## From The Font

_"On a Sabbath, Jesus went to dine at the home of one of the leading Pharisees, and the people there were observing him carefully.”_

Brennan Manning once wrote “the greatest single cause of atheism in the world today is Christians: who acknowledge Jesus with their lips, walk out the door, and deny Him by their lifestyle. That is what an unbelieving world simply finds unbelievable.” It’s ironic that this excellent quote comes from a priest who abandoned the priesthood - not the best example to set. And yet, today’s gospel is as much about the example that we set for others as it is about humility for ourselves.

Any time anyone exhorts someone else to be better than mediocre, that other person has two options. They can be encouraged or they can find a justification for their mediocrity. No justification for mediocrity is better than accusing someone of hypocrisy.

Many professing-but-not-practicing  Christians or non-Christians think they’ve really won an argument when they point out that Christians are sinners. Well, of course they are! And yet, we as Christians have a moral obligation to do our level best to set the best example of the Christian life despite our own weaknesses and failings. We don’t do this for our own pride or reputation - we do it because others are always observing us carefully just as they observed the Lord carefully. And Jesus tells us in the Gospel : “Woe to you who cause others to sin.”

None of us is perfect. Every single Christian is a hypocrite… Some are hypocrites because they love and preach the truth that Jesus preached and find themselves failing to live up to their own preaching. Others are hypocrites because they’ve recreated their religion as a Diet-Coke version of Christianity in which Jesus is OK with all sorts of little adjustments to His teaching because I’m being “realistic” or “authentic” or whatever else. Still others are hypocrites because they happily call themselves Christians without really doing anything like practicing religion. Still, none of that is cause to lose hope… The Lord, after all, went to dine with sinners and He wants to forgive those who want to be forgiven. Let’s be that kind of people!

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

Two of my best friends and my dad have birthdays this week. Personally, I’m not a big fan of parties which place me as the center of attention and so I’ve never been a big fan of celebrating my own birthday. I’m ok if that makes me a little weird. Still, I believe firmly in the value of celebrating anniversaries and birthdays and feast days of saints and even remembering great moments in history. This Wednesday, for example, in 476AD was the end of the Roman Empire. I don’t know that I’ll cook a big steak in honor of it, but remembering the day gives me an excuse to reminisce. Friday is Mel McDaniel’s birthday. He wrote “Louisiana Saturday Night” and “Baby’s Got Her Blue Jeans On.” Again, it’s not exactly New Years Day, but remembering and recalling and being nostalgic are important for us as human beings. Until very recently, most of us would have spent more of our mental energy thinking on the the past than dwelling on the present and future. We would have told stories and talked about the good old days rather than watch biased and depressing news or lose ourselves scrolling down our social media feeds. We would have entertained our kids singing the  songs of our own childhood rather than leaving it up to the Wiggles and PJ Mask.

And that constant reference to the past would have provided a sense of reality and an ongoing opportunity to compare the choices which will shape the near future with the choices which shaped the near past. Now, though, we’re all just rush ahead headlong with little or not reference to our own pasts or the collective wisdom of our own community. The value of reminiscing in and celebrating the past is in the groundedness that comes from it. While the Lord calls people who live in the past “stiff-necked,” the modern world is an experiment in rejecting the wisdom of the past at every opportunity. That’s not a recipe for progress, it’s a recipe for insanity. If we find ourselves exhausted with the present, it’s almost certainly because we haven’t given the time to the past that it deserves.

If you’re looking to make things right, don’t worry about a family history lecture - maybe just sit down and tell a story about grandpa or great-aunt Judy or that time when dad tried to rebuild the dishwasher or the time when little Johnny jumped in the Lake because he was afraid of a sparrow or really anything else. Nostalgia is a human necessity. It’s important.

—

I don’t know if Jeannette or Jacque or my Dad will read this article, but if they do, I hope they have a wonderful birthday. Either way, I hope all of us take the opportunity to luxuriate in a big of nostalgia more often. It’s good for us as individuals and as a community.

Incidentally, this Saturday is First Saturday. Just a reminder that we do have Mass at 8:30a every First Saturday followed by Benediction. Our Lady called for this Devotion at Fatima and it’s a good and holy thing to do. All together, the whole devotion lasts less than an hour and is low stress. If you haven’t before, consider joining us!

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* Sept 6 First Friday Devotions to the Sacred Heart of Jesus - 5:30 p.m.
* Sept 7 First Saturday Devotions to our Blessed Mother - Mass and Holy Hour - 8:30 a.m.

## For Your Information:

Through September, our schedule will be:

- Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
- Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
- Sun. 9am - Tallulah
- Sun. 11:00am - St. Joseph

COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS CHOIR PRACTICE... Sunday, September 8, at First Baptist Church at 4 p.m.  in the Choir Room. The music is “Come and See, Go and Tell.” Pass the word to everyone who would like to be a part of the program.  “Christmas on the Bayou” is scheduled for December 8.

NEW ALTAR SERVER TRAINING… those children who have made their First Communion and are interested in becoming altar servers will have the opportunity to have training this Fall.  Parents should contact Father Ryan for arranging a schedule that is mutually convenient.

PRAYER FOR HURRICANE SEASON… Our Father in heaven, through the powerful intercession of Our Lady of Prompt Succor, spare us from all harm during this hurricane season, and protect us and our homes from all disasters of nature.  Our Lady of Prompt Succor, hasten to our help. Amen

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the HolySpirit, one God for ever and ever. Amen

PROTECTING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go on line regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.

- “Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse.

- “Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide”
  The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential.

SAINTS ALIVE…ANGELS AT WORK…last Sunday’s Brunch was SUPER --the decorations were definitely unique and the food, well it was a great picture of the culinary skills of our faith family!….Thanks to the group who made it possible!

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 \$2,111
- July Budget \$8,444
- July Income \$7,372
- July Expenses \$8,303
- August Budget \$8,444
- Collection August 24/25 \$1,242
- August Income to Date \$8,516

**Stewardship** In the Gospel today, Jesus warns us not to give in hopes of repayment, but to give open-handedly to the poor and needy.  That sort of giving mirrors the bountiful giving of Goad, and Jesus assures us it is blessed indeed!

**SPECIAL COLLECTION** This weekend’s second collection is our once-a-month Building Fund collection

**STEWARDSHIP OF TIME AND TALENT** Would you like to serve our faith family as a Lector or as a Eucharistic Minister??  If so, please contact Libby Bullard (574-1736) for training. Parents…if you would like your child to be an Altar Server, please contact Father Ryan.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 6:00p In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tue 5:30p In memory of Charlie and Sarah Phillips (anniversary)/Hodge
- Wed 5:30p In memory of E. A. “Jim” Jumonville (death)/family
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Rosa Gremshell             Legacy Care Center
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Becky Lancaster/ Placke
- Sat 6:00p In memory of Matt Farlow/Scott
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Angel Farlow

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 8/31 6:00p
  - Lector: A Farlow
  - EMHCs: C VanderVieren & L Bullard
- 9/1 9:00a
  - Servers: P Collins & C Wood
  - Lector: A Oliver
  - EMHCs: Volunteers
- 9/7 6:00p
  - Lector: P Wilks
  - EMHCs: B Wilks & L Magoun
- 9/8 9:00a
  - Servers: W Sullivan & M Wood
  - Lector: K Collins
  - EMHCs: B Smith & A Keene
- 9/14 6:00p
  - Lector: M Rome
  - EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
- 9/15 9:00a
  - Servers: C Marsh & H Ellerbee
  - Lector: P Collins/H Ellerbee
  - EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Alyce Keene (Aug 31), Chandler Brook Wood (Aug 31), Sug Regan (Sept 4), Kathleen Ellerbee (Sept 8)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal,

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, David Fortenberry, Thom Gilfoil, Melissa Grady (D Wood), Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Suzanne Paxton (Regan),  Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Yvonne Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart), Max Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
