---
title: Divine Mercy Sunday
date: "2019-04-28T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-04-28/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-white.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“On the evening of that first day of the week, when the doors were locked, where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews…”_

All too often, Christians are expected (either by themselves or by others) to be magically free of human weakness and failure. Every time a Catholic loses his cool, the anti-Christian points and says “you see… your faith doesn’t do anything real for you.” Of course, there are plenty of Catholic jokes and Baptist jokes and Christian jokes in general which all poke fun at supposed hypocrisy, which is really just humanity. Following Jesus isn’t about abandoning our humanity - it’s really about acknowledging it. When we sin, we are doing what humans do. When we acknowledge our sin and ask forgiveness, we are doing what Jesus told us to do in order to be better and to go to heaven. When we pretend that sin isn’t sin - either by claiming sin is ok or by claiming it wasn’t my fault - we are really pretending that God is not the master of right and wrong. When we pretend we (or others) didn’t sin, we’re doing what Adam and Eve did in making themselves masters of right and wrong.

In reality, all have sinned and fallen short of the Glory of God and the good news of the Gospel is that Jesus knows that about us and loves us anyway.

And that’s one of the big measures that we use for human love as well. It’s doesn’t matter if that boy or girl likes us when we’re putting on the show during the beginning of the courtship. What matters is if they want to stay with us when they start to see our warts, so to speak. She’s willing to put up with his undies on the floor and his slobby way of living… WOW. He’s willing to listen without trying to fix everything… WOW. They actually care what I think about rice or Ryan Gosling? WOW. Love is seen most powerfully when we show our worst side. And sin is us showing our worst side to the Lord. And that He was willing to die even for those who aren’t willing to admit their own fault is Divine Mercy.

And so the next time someone is shocked because a Christian failed to be human, we can remind ourselves that it’s not fear or anger or a moment of weakness that separates us from God, it’s refusing to say that I’m a sinner.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

Divine Mercy Sunday was established by Pope St. John Paul II in response to the apparitions of Jesus and Mary experienced by a young Polish nun named Faustina. She experienced visions of Jesus and Mary for several years and she recorded the experiences in a journal. Jesus told Faustina that many people in this age were going to hell. He showed her limited visions of Hell which frightened her to her core. He told her that God so wanted to share His mercy and yet so few were willing to ask for it.

He asked her to do two things. First, He wanted her to have an image painted. The image would be of Jesus wearing his seamless white robe and a simple blue belt. He would be barefoot and from his heart two beams of light would be issuing forth. The beam on His right would be red and the beam to His left would be blue. They would symbolize the blood and water which flowed from the wound which the soldier’s lance made in the side of Jesus. The image would have a single line of text which would read: “Jezu Ufam Tobie” (that’s Polish for “Jesus, I trust in You”).

In addition to the painting, Jesus asked Faustina to make a explanation of a simple chaplet which people should be encouraged to pray. Chaplets are prayers said on beads - usually Rosary beads - but which are generally much shorted than the Rosary. The practice was hugely common in Europe at the time with dozens of chaplets officially approved and hundreds more unofficially in use. There were chaplets of St. Michael, of St. Jude, of St. Monica and many more. In this Chaplet of Divine Mercy, three prayers would be said. On the large beads: “Eternal Father, I offer you the Body and Blood, Soul and Divinity of Your Dearly Beloved Son, Our Lord, Jesus Christ, in atonement for our sins and those of the whole world.” On the small beads: “For the sake of His sorrowful Passion, have mercy on us and on the whole world.” And at the end: “Holy God, Holy Mighty One, Holy Immortal One, have mercy on us and on the whole world.”

Faustina didn’t paint. She didn’t know anyone who did. She didn’t have an audience or a following or a Twitter account and she had no idea at all how to accomplish these two requests from the Lord. She asked the convent’s chaplain. He asked the local bishop. Some things started to happen. There were setbacks. There was drama. But in God’s time, the painting was made and a pamphlet was printed to explain the chaplet. And, as far as anyone knew, the story had ended. The Polish were conquered by the Nazis and then by the Soviets. And then, in 1978, an obscure Polish bishop was elected Pope. A Polish bishop who had gone to school about 2 miles from Sr. Faustina’s convent. He had grown up seeing the image of Divine Mercy and saying the chaplet. And from an obscure nun, given an impossible task came probably the most popular devotion other than the Rosary in the Catholic Church.

And so don’t say to the Lord: “I’m not equipped to serve you.” Don’t say: “I don’t have the knowledge or the resources.” Don’t say: “I’m not the right choice.” Instead, say with Saint Faustina: “Jesus, I trust in You! - Jezu Ufam Tobie!!”

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* May 5 First Holy Communion - 9:30 a.m. Mass with a reception following in the Hall
* May 12 Mass honoring our high school Seniors - 9:30 a.m. Mass - reception following
* June 23 Second Quarter Potluck Social following 9:30 a.m. Mass in Church Hall.  Plan to attend

## For Your Information:

FIRST HOLY COMMUNION AND CROWNING OF MARY...will be May 5 at the 9:30 a.m. Mass followed by a Reception honoring our communicants in the Parish Hall.  Plan to attend and celebrate with the families of Olivia Claire Copes, Evelyn Kivett, MaryKatherine Marsh, and Maura McCarty.

SENIORS RECOGNITION...will be May 12 at the 9:30 a.m.Mass followed by a Reception honoring our TA graduates, Aidan Collins and Emmy Lu Marsh...plan to attend and celebrate with them, their parents, Kendra and Dave and Ginny and Billy, and family!

SECOND QUARTER POTLUCK SOCIAL … June 23 following 9:30 a.m. Mass.  Mark your calendar and plan to attend.  
 Second Quarter (April, May, June) Social Committee - Pat and Libby Bullard, Elizabeth Crothers, Angel Farlow, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, MaryAnne Gilfoil, Terry and Andy Hall, Isabell Hernandez, Ann Keene, Alyce and C.W. Keene, Frances Kennedy\*, Andy Nguyen, Bobby Reynolds, Jim and Frances Roemer, Joe Storey, Delia Trichell, and Cathy VanderVieren, Len Faustino, Jeanie Yabut

CATHOLIC HOME MISSIONS FUND...Your donation to the Catholic Home Missions Appeal helps strengthen the Church at home!  Right now, over 40% of dioceses in the United States are considered mission territory because they are unable to fund essential pastoral work in their communities. Your support of this appeal eases the struggle of these dioceses. The Diocese of Alexandria is considered a 'mission diocese" and receives funding from this appeal. Please prayerfully consider how you can support this appeal. Find more information at www.usccb.org/home-missions.

SAINTS ALIVE...ANGELS AT WORK….goodness!!...where to begin!...
Altar Society Bake Sale took in \$3,065 thanks to LOTS of people who organized, publicized, cooked, worked and purchased.  Libby reports that this is the most money that has ever been raised and even more importantly there was lots of “friend raising” with contented customers!!!
Holy Week Services were beautiful and thought provoking thanks to everyone who decorated, “arranged”, cleaned up, served on the altar, served as lectors/readers or Extraordinary Ministers of Holy Communion, provided music and all the other tasks that arose!!!
The Easter Egg Hunt was extremely well attended and if anyone went home without eggs, it was simply because they did not want any as there was an abundance!!  Thanks to all those who provided leadership for the event and to all who contributed to refreshments!
After Easter, some Gardening Angels were hard at work and consequently the azaleas all over the grounds have been pruned and the trash disposed!

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2018-19 \$1,917
- March Budget \$9,585
- March Income \$10,113
- March Expenses \$8,118
- April Budget \$7,668
- Collection April 20/21 \$1,881
- April Income to Date \$7,836

**Stewardship ** “Blessed are they who have not seen and have believed,” Jesus says in today’s Gospel.  For those who have not seen to believe, however, we must be good stewards of our faith, living it joyfully and sharing it generously.  Then, in our time too,”men and women in great numbers” will be “added to the Lord.”

SECOND COLLECTION… is for Catholic Home Missions.  See notes elsewhere in bulletin

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Jason Jumonville/Family
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tues 5:30p In memory of Matt Farlow/Lancaster
- Wed 5:30p In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/Weaver
- Thurs 9:00a In memory of Rosa Gremshell (Olive Branch)
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Matt Farlow/R Scott
- Sat 5:30p In memory of J.E. “Boyzie” Jumonville/family
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Blanche and Skeeter Wilks

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 4/27 5:30p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: L Bullard & A Keene
- 4/28 9:30a
  _ Servers: P Collins & M Wood
  _ Lector: D Ellerbee
  \_ EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 5/4 5:30p
  _ Lector: L Bullard
  _ EMHCs: P & B Wilks
- 5/5 9:30a
  _ Servers: A Collins/C Wood
  _ Lector: B Sullivan
  \_ EMHCs: B Smith & K Collin
- 5/11 8:00p
  _ Lector: MA Gilfoil
  _ EMHCs: A Farlow & A Keene
- 5/12 9:30a
  _ Servers: C Marsh/H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: D Ellerbee
  \_ EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Norman Ernst II (April 27), Ginny Marsh (April 28), Hunter Sullivan (May 4),
Father Ryan Humphries (May 6)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal, Geneva Russell

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Kay Collins, Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, JoAnn Phillips Finn (Hodge), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Kathleen Oliver, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
