---
title: The 21st Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-08-25T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-08-25/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_"Lord, will only a few people be saved?"_

Many, many people seem to be of the opinion that “a good and loving God would never send anyone to Hell, so, surely, everyone goes to Heaven…” Maybe Hitler and the guy who invented that plastic packaging that’s impossible to open are in Hell, but everyone else is surely in Heaven! Right?

Jesus’ answer to this question in Luke 13 (and His answers to similar questions elsewhere) is nothing at all like that opinion. Jesus replies: “many, I tell you, will attempt to enter but will not be strong enough.” “Many!” Our Lady at Fatima and again at Akita warned that many and perhaps even most people in our modern world will go to Hell rather than to Heaven.

And yet we and our Protestant brethren and too many of us treat the anniversary of death as a “Birthday into Heaven.” We write obits with phrases like “Mrs Smith went to be with Jesus in Heaven on Thursday.” We go to the funeral and we hear that Aunt Judy is with Jesus where there’s no more suffering. Even our clergy aren’t willing to mention the P word.

Purgatory is a place of great hope… and great suffering and purification. Every soul there will spend eternity looking upon the Face of God in ecstatic joy. They will all count the sufferings of the present age as naught compared to the Glory revealed in Heaven. But almost no souls will bypass Purgatory and enter into Heaven right away. A hundred souls in a century might do so, probably fewer.

And many, many souls will not show genuine contrition and faith when they face the terror of judgment. Many souls will claim in death as they do in life that “I have good reasons to do this or that!” They’ll refuse to be sorry for their sins because they’ll believe their actions weren’t sinful in the first place… And that is the single, number one cause for souls to damn themselves. Eve didn’t believe she sinned. Judas has good excuses. And sweet little Mrs. O’Quinn felt justified in her choices - so much so that when Jesus demanded her repentance, she replied with her reasons…

And so, "Lord, will only a few people be saved?" “...many, I tell you, will attempt to enter but will not be strong enough.”

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

This Wednesday and Thursday are a pair of feasts that are intensely relevant for many of us personally and for the modern Church. St. Monica’s feast on Tuesday honors the mother of the great St. Augustine. He was a brilliant young man and a scholar at a time when that made him a rock star. She was a Christian and tried to raise her son to be one. But he got distracted by his own brilliance and fame (and, of course, puberty) and became the prodigal son in his youth. And his mother prayed for him.

After he had an illegitimate son, he decided to grow up and take responsibility, but he didn’t embrace Christianity. Instead, he joined up with the pop religion of his day (“Manichaeism”). It used a lot of Christian vocabulary, but it was more of a philosophical religion that ended up being a kind of self-worship. Think of it something like Joel Olsteen’s brand of Christianity which is really just self-help optimism with lots of Christian words and phrases. Monica knew this heresy was nonsense and dangerous, but her son thought he knew better and so his mother prayed for him.

For nearly thirty years, she watched her beloved son sin and abuse himself and hurt his family and for nearly thirty years, she prayed for him.

Now, she didn’t just pray for afar! She loved him. She challenged him when she could - Augustine is one of the greatest minds in human history, after all. She encouraged him. She shared her own faith with him. She guilted him and used whatever tools she had to correct him… But above all, she prayed for him…

Let’s be clear, too, she didn’t just pray with words. She prayed with fasting. She prayed at Mass. She prayed by asking the Lord for the right words to say and the right moment to say them. She studied her faith. She sought advice and assistance. She talked with Augustine’s son and his son’s mom. She did everything she could so that God could use her in any which way He wanted to. She prayed with her whole self…

And after nearly thirty years of waiting, Augustine had an awakening which he describes in his spiritual autobiography, “The Confessions of St. Augustine.” Monica lived to see her son repent of his sins and become a Christian. Almost immediately, he was chosen to the Bishop of his city of Hippo in modern Algeria.

So many of us have kids who we raised to be Catholic. You brought them to Church. You taught them their prayers. You fought them tooth and fingernail to get confirmed and to go to CCD… And now, they’ve abandoned the Church. What do you do?

First and foremost, the example of St. Monica is to pray. But don’t let your prayer end with a few words or even a few rosaries. Fast, study, ask the Lord for the right words at the right moment and ask the Lord for the patience and faith to trust in Him. If someone doesn’t want to live their Faith, it doesn’t mean the Lord isn’t at work in them. It doesn’t mean that the Lord can’t bring about amazing conversion.

St. Monica pray for us and for all our children!

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

- August 25 Potluck Brunch - Third Quarter Social following 9 a.m. Mass
- Sept 6 First Friday Devotions to the Sacred Heart of Jesus - 5:30 p.m.
- Sept 7 First Saturday Devotions to our Blessed Mother - Mass and Holy Hour - 8:30 a.m.

## For Your Information:

Through September, our schedule will be:

- Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
- Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
- Sun. 9am - Tallulah
- Sun. 11:00am - St. Joseph

POTLUCK BRUNCH …Sunday, August 25th …. following 9 a.m. Mass will be our Third Quarter (July, Aug, Sept) Social.  The Committee consists of Shannon and Bart Wood and Betty and Kenny Smith, co-chairs, MaryKathryn Book, Kendra and Dave Collins, Connie and Dan Copes, Bruce and Kate Copes, Dana and Randy Dukes, Lance and Stephenie Marsh, Susie and Terry Murphy, Peggy and Phil Scurria, Beth and Chip Sullivan

COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS CHOIR PRACTICE...begins on Sunday, August 25, at First Baptist Church at 4 p.m.  in the Choir Room. There will be a “listen through” of the music “Come and See, Go and Tell.” Pass the word to everyone who would like to be a part of the program.

ADDRESS FOR SUE SCURRIA...Sue Scurria has moved to the Dallas area where both Gigi Ball (daughter) and Larry Scurria (son) reside.  For those who may want to send her a card, her address is Forum Parkway Rehab Center, Rm 309-A, 2112 Forum Parkway, Bedford, Texas 76021.

PRAYER FOR HURRICANE SEASON… Our Father in heaven, through the powerful intercession of Our Lady of Prompt Succor, spare us from all harm during this hurricane season, and protect us and our homes from all disasters of nature.  Our Lady of Prompt Succor, hasten to our help. Amen

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope, and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ, Your Son our Lord, in the unity of the HolySpirit, one God for ever and ever. Amen

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 \$2,111
- July Budget \$8,444
- July Income \$7,372
- July Expenses \$8,303
- August Budget \$8,444
- Collection August 17/18 \$1,415
- August Income to Date \$7,274

**Stewardship ** Today’s reading from Isaiah describes the Israelites bring their offering to the Lord”in clean vessels.”  The gift of myself--my patient endurance and fidelity to the will of God--is as important as the monetary gift I offer.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 6:00p Special Intention of Magoun family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tue 5:30p In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/Finn
- Wed 5:30p In memory of May DiTomasso
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Joe Scurria/Harris              Legacy Care Center
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Becky Lacaster/Bullard
- Sat 6:00p In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of MaryAnne Gilfoil

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 8/24 6:00p
  _ Lector: MA Gilfoil
  _ EMHCs: M Rome & L Magoun
- 8/25 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Sullivan & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: D Ellerbee \* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
- 8/31 6:00p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: C VanderVieren & L Bullard
- 9/1 9:00a
  _ Servers: P Collins & C Wood
  _ Lector: A Oliver \* EMHCs: Volunteers
- 9/7 6:00p
  _ Lector: P Wilks
  _ EMHCs: B Wilks & L Magoun
- 9/8 9:00a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan & M Wood
  _ Lector: K Collins \* EMHCs: B Smith & A Keene

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Bruce Copes (Aug 29), Alyce Keene (Aug 31), Chandler Brook Wood (Aug 31)

**Happy Anniversary** Louise and Dale Magoun (Aug 25), Mary Jane and Sidney Johnson (Aug 26), Kendra and Dave Collins (Aug 29)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal,

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, David Fortenberry, Thom Gilfoil, Melissa Grady (D Wood), Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Suzanne Paxton (Regan),  Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Yvonne Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart), Max Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
