---
title: The Fourth Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-02-03T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-02-03/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“When the people in the synagogue heard this, they were all filled with fury.”_

Nothing infuriates the immature more than being reminded that their insights and ideas are, simply, immature. The Jews Jesus was speaking with thought themselves better than the bad guys they read about in scripture and they believed that because they were the Chosen People, they were done. Jesus reminded them that being one of the Chosen People is not enough. He pointed to the prophet Elijah who was sent to two pagans rather than to the multitude of Jews in need… He reminded them that God had prioritized non-Chosen People in those cases and called on them to believe that God wanted to do something remarkable in their sight…

We find ourselves in the same boat today. We are not special. We are not more sophisticated or morally superior to the Romans watching murders in the Coliseum or the Mongols killing whole villages or even our own ancestors whipping their slaves. Given difficult circumstances and sufficient cover from consequences, we may make the same kinds of mistakes that they did. Our technology doesn’t make us better and neither does our PC culture. After all, the same people preaching tolerance are defending abortion as if it were anything less than murdering a child.

We live at the end of the bloodiest century in Human history in which Stalin and Hitler and Mao and their policies have literally killed a billion people - 1 in 8 of every people born in the past 100 years has died by violence. Let that sink in… Abortion is about 100 times more likely to kill you than a heart attack, cancer and car accident combined.

The thing is, when we realize this about ourselves, we are actually liberated from this absurd need to recognize (or invent) the “divine within.” We are not gods - none of us. There’s nothing virtuous about tolerance or environmental consciousness or going green or accepting people as they are. There’s only the freedom God offers or the illusions that we invent for ourselves to imitate that freedom. That’s why the people were filled with fury in the synagogue - but it’s also why they had no power over Jesus and He walked away through them.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

Relics are weird. I have two relics on our altar here at St. Edward: St. Teresa of Avila and Pope St. Pius X. The main altar actually has a relic of a martyr (I’m not sure which one) embedded within it. Some relics are just relics and some seem to be connected with healing - either spiritual or physical. While there are a few passages in scripture that seem to give some indications about relics, they really are a part of the Church that we call Sacred Tradition. Basically, the Church has been at this a long time and we have discovered some things that God baked into our world when He made it. One of those things is that some holy people when they die don’t decompose… We call these folks “incorruptible.” St. Clare of Assisi is incorrupt. The tongue - and only the tongue - of St. John Chrysostom is incorrupt. Other folks who die decompose normally, but their bones seem to have properties of healing or exorcism. These kinds of “relics” - from the Latin “Reliquia” meaning “remains” - were first discovered in the Catacombs of Rome. During times of persecution, the faithful Christians would go to the tombs of the martyrs to pray and, sometimes, to offer Mass. Sometimes, people would experience healings. This happened so frequently that certain tombs gained fame and popularity.

Saint Blaise was a third century bishop and medical doctor who was martyred in AD 316. He was buried in modern-day Turkey which was part of the Roman Empire at the time. Those who visited his grave experienced healings. This was especially true of people who had maladies of the throat and neck. As time passed, his grave was a site of pilgrimage and even those who couldn’t be present would ask for his prayers and patronage. St. Blaise, along with many others of the early Church including St. Philomena and St. Cecilia, popularized the notion of taking a small bit of bone from the miraculous tomb and enshrining it elsewhere.

Things went south in the early middle ages when bishops (who were often appointed from rich families in exchange for bribes) noticed that a popular relic could bring in big money from religious tourists. Many saintly tombs were all but robbed and undoubtedly many relics were just invented. At one point, nine Churches claimed to have the head of St. John the Baptist. In the last four hundred years, a massive effort to get rid of fake relics and to restore what relics are meant to be has been underway. There’s still a lot of work to do, but we can be fairly sure that modern relics like Teresa and Pope St. Pius X are the real deal.

Of course, the best test is the same test the early Christians applied - if miracles are associated with it, then that’s all I need to know. If not, then no big deal. Many Protestants and even some Catholics dismiss relics as superstitions of an outdated, overly supernatural mode of religious thinking… They assume that because relics were abused, they should be abandoned. They tend to think the same way about indulgences and anything traditional at all. A far wiser approach is to ask the Lord to make use of these tools which He has used to great effect is years past and - as St. Peter recommends - to judge the tree by its fruits. The Lord won’t be offended by our efforts.

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

- Feb 3 Sunday Morning Catechism & First Holy Communion Lesson
- Feb 3 First Sunday - Traditional Latin Mass - 12 noon
- Feb 13 Wednesday Evening Catechism...Devotionals - The Rosary, Holy Water, Relics
- March 3 Potluck Brunch celebrating Mardi Gras following Mass - First Quarter Social

## For Your Information:

WE WELCOME Kathleen Kathy Creech to our Church and to the Catholic Faith this weekend! Kathy has been praying about becoming a Catholic for a good while and this year was the year. She was Baptized as a Baptist as a young woman and this Saturday, she was Confirmed and received First Holy Communion. Please make Kathy feel welcome and pray for her and her family as she joins us in the One Bread and the One Cup.

SPECIAL COLLECTION… this weekend (February 2/3) for our one monthly Building Fund.  Please be generous.

ANNIVERSARIES…..Our Diocesan Newspaper is soliciting photos of couples celebrating their anniversaries for a special issue specifically about marriage. If you’d like to submit a photo of yourself and your spouse, please email the photo to cari.terracina@diocesealex.org by Fri, Feb 8. Please include the names of the bride, groom, priest, the church name, and date of the ceremony. If you cannot email the photo, please contact them at (318) 445–6424, ext. 264 to discuss how to submit your picture. Thanks!

ALTAR SOCIETY DUES PAYABLE FOR 2019…All ladies of the faith family of St. Edward are considered members of the Altar Society which is responsible for the needs of the altar such as candles, wine, hosts, altar clothes and linens and decorations.  It is now time to pay your \$10 dues for 2019 and there are envelopes at the entrance of church for your convenience. You may return your envelope in the collection basket or to the church office.

FIRST SUNDAY LATIN MASS is FEBRUARY 3. There’s nothing special about the first Sunday, it’s just easy to remember. Fr. Ryan offers a special Mass according to the Extraordinary Form of the Roman Rite at noon for those interested in the Traditional Mass of the Church. The Sermon is in English and booklets with both Latin and English are provided.

FEAST OF ST BLAISE... is the traditional time for the blessing of throats. Father will bless throats after the Saturday evening and both Sunday Masses the weekend of Feb 2 & 3.

FIRST QUARTER SOCIAL COMMITTEE (Jan, Feb, March)...  Margo Corulla and Darryl and Abby Ellerbee will serve as co-chairs for a Potluck Brunch celebrating Mardi Gras on Sunday, March 3, following Mass.  Others making up the group include Norman and Marie Ernst, Brian Johnson, Sidney and Mary Jane Johnson, Robbie and Tori Kivett, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Teddy and Alyssa Oliver, Mike and Sue Rome, Jason Trichell, Mary Trichell, Levi Washington.  All are invited to attend….mark your calendar and plan to participate.

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2018-19 \$1,917
- December Budget \$9,585
- December Income \$10,353
- December Expenses \$9,953
- January Budget \$7,668
- Collection Jan 26/27 \$1,397
- Jan Income to Date \$7,705

**Special Collection** this weekend for our Monthly Building Fund.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Marie P Michele/Weaver
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tue 5:30p In memory of Angela Lusk/Leoty
- Wed 5:30p In memory of Joe Scurria/Meadows
- Thurs 9:00a In memory of Rosa Gremshell                    Olive Branch
- Fri 5:30p In memory of
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Matt Farlow/Lancaster
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 2/2 5:30p
  _ Lector: A Keene
  _ EMHCs: A Farlow & MA Gilfoil
- 2/3 9:30a
  _ Servers: P Collins & M Wood
  _ Lector: A Oliver \* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
- 2/9 5:30p
  _ Lector: C VanderVieren
  _ EMHCs: L Bullard & M Rome
- 2/10 9:30a
  _ Servers: C Wood & C Sullivan
  _ Lector: D Ellerbee \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 2/16 5:30p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: Volunteers
- 2/17 9:30a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: Preston & Caroline \* EMHCs: K Collins & B Smith

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Evelyn Grace Kivett (Feb 2), Dorothy Dyer (Feb 3), Susan Gilfoil (Feb 3), Ben Dukes (Feb 4), Blanche Wilks (Feb 5), Stephenie E. Marsh (Feb 6)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop David Talley and Bishop-Emeritus Ronald Herzog, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Michael Lancaster, Dale & Louise Magoun, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Andrew Lombardo, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal, Geneva Russell
Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Tommy and Gail Byrd, Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Kay Collins, Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, JoAnn Phillips Finn (Hodge), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee, Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Kathleen Oliver, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood
The family of Becky Lancaster who died last Sunday

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
