---
title: The 20th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-08-18T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-08-18/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“For the sake of the joy that lay before him he endured the cross, despising its shame, and has taken his seat at the right of the throne of God.”_

Suffering has no value in and of itself. It’s not good or heroic to play the martyr or to choose the more sorrowful way in any given situation just because it’s more sorrowful or difficult. It is only “for the sake of that joy” lies on the other side of hard choices that they gain their value and worth. Even a quick reading of the Gospels reveals that Jesus is not a one-note kind of teacher. He is quick to point out the good things that the Lord wants to do for us! But He’s just as quick to say that it’s going to cost and that it may well cost the “shedding of blood” up to and including death. But, as Ezekiel in the Old Testament said, “God does not desire the death of the sinner” just because… There’s a much deeper reality.

This world is so immersive and it seems like all there is. We wake up in this body. We live this life. There are consequences to our choices. Circumstances around us affect us. Our five senses deliver so much stimulus to our minds!

The digital world - which is itself a kind of proof-of-concept that the invisible, spiritual world may exist all around us - floods our minds and imaginations which are, themselves, further proofs-of-concept for the non-corporeal. And in the midst of that, we might be forgiven for not looking for yet another level of reality beyond our senses and our screens.

But if we do look for that reality, we come to understand that for all its worth, this world is passing away - the bodily and the digital… The eternal world to which we also belong, is not passing away, though. To perceive that world and to dwell in it and to transition from a life lived for this bodily world to a life lived for that eternal world is not so simple nowadays. And that’s where suffering, trial, penance and the cross comes is. That’s where Jesus’ message makes sense. That “edge” between this world and that world seems so sharp and so final - and yet the Lord Jesus teaches that it’s just a matter of perception and realization. Suffering stinks, but the payoff is utterly worth it… Easter Sunday is worth Good Friday, the Resurrection is worth the Cross. Heaven is worth a little pain.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

And so we’re back in school… This time of year, my mother always started to say the same thing: it’s time to get “back into the routine.” My mom is an astounding person and by sheer force of will she would drag the whole house from summertime chaos “back into the routine.”

Religious writers through history have used phrases like “rule of life” or “master the passions” to get at the same idea. Whether we’re particularly order-oriented or more free-spirited by nature, we must create a way of living in which we become the masters of our own passions, emotions and choices. We use the word adolescent to describe someone who is driven by emotions and surroundings to make choices not in their own self-interest. We use the word addict to describe someone who makes choices against their own self-interest because of chemical dependency. We use the word phobic to describe someone who makes choices against their own self-interest because of fear, real or imagined. Without some rule of life, some routine, every human being will make choices against his or her own best interest. It’s our nature. For evidence, see Adam and Eve.

Surely, some people are naturally self-disciplined and some people are predisposed to obsessive behavior. But there are plenty of Saints in our history who have overcome excesses in personality by imposing upon themselves an order of life in which they master their own passions and emotions through a combination of self-discipline, prayer and voluntary penance.

Perhaps the most important part of the equation for those people, though, is purpose. Humans are really, really bad at doing things “just because.” From a very young age, we want to know why we ought to do something. “Eat your veggies. Why?” “Brush your teeth. Why?” “Don’t drink lake water. Why not?” With a sense of purpose, we can accomplish amazing things. We can contort our attention and talent to unimaginable heights. Without a sense of purpose, we get Spongebob.

Back to School is a great time to reinvigorate and reconsider our personal and family routines. It’s a great time to think about our own sense of purpose. Why go to school? Why play sports? Why do any of it? The more clearly we can answer those questions and the more conviction that we can answer them with, the more genuinely happy and healthy we will be as individuals and families.

A routine can become a weight around the neck. It can be a burden. It can become just one darn thing after another. But when we know why we do it… When we know why it matters to pay attention in school... When we know why we ought to brush our teeth or avoid drinking too much lake water, the drudgery is lightened and our willingness to do it well is amplified.

I do miss my mom’s routine some days. It was nice having someone else be responsible for getting me awake, dressed and to my daily work… Had I known then that the purpose of the routine was to make being an adult so much easier, I probably would have complained less!

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

- August 18 Youth Mass-Coffee and Doughnuts will be served in the Hall following 9 a.m. Mass
- August 20 Pastoral Council Meeting – Parish Hall – following 5:30 p.m. Mass
- August 21 Wednesday Evening Talk:  The Virtue of Hope - 6 p.m. in the Church Hall
- August 25 Potluck Brunch - Third Quarter Social following 9 a.m. Mass… see committee below

## For Your Information:

Through September, our schedule will be:

- Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
- Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
- Sun. 9am - Tallulah
- Sun. 11:00am - St. Joseph

PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, AUGUST 20,  at 6:00 p.m(after 5:30 p.m. Mass) in the Church Center. Appointed members of the Council:  MaryAnne Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Michael Lancaster, Ginny Marsh, Beth Sullivan and Levi Washington.  Appointed as Trustees by the Bishop are Brian Johnson and Dale Magoun. Appointed by the pastor to serve as Finance Council Chair is Darryl Ellerbee.  Additionally, serving on the Council in an ex-officio capacity as President of the Altar Society will be Cathy VanderVieren. All members are requested to make special effort to attend.  Parishioners are encouraged to attend and contribute to the discussions.

WEDNESDAY EVENING TALK:  THE VIRTUE OF HOPE … will be on Wednesday, August 21, in the Church Hall following the 5:30 p.m. Mass.  Those of you who have requested Adult Education opportunities will want to participate!

POTLUCK BRUNCH …Sunday, August 25th …. following 9 a.m. Mass will be our Third Quarter (July, Aug, Sept) Social.  The Committee consists of Shannon and Bart Wood and Betty and Kenny Smith, co-chairs, MaryKathryn Book, Kendra and Dave Collins, Connie and Dan Copes, Bruce and Kate Copes, Dana and Randy Dukes, Lance and Stephenie Marsh, Susie and Terry Murphy, Peggy and Phil Scurria, Beth and Chip Sullivan

COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS CHOIR PRACTICE...begins on Sunday, August 25, at First Baptist Church at 4 p.m.  in the Choir Room. There will be a “listen through” of the msic “Come and See, Go and Tell.” Pass the word to everyone who would like to be a part of the program.

PRAYER FOR HURRICANE SEASON… O God, Master of this passing world, hear the humble voices of your children.  The Sea of Galilee obeyed your order and returned to its former quietude; you are still the Master of land and sea.  We live in the shadow of a danger over which we have no control. The Gulf, like a provoked and angry giant, can awake from its seeming lethargy, overstep its conventional boundaries, invade our land and spread chaos and disaster.  During this hurricane season, we turn to You, O loving Father. Spare us from past tragedies whose memories are still so vivid and whose wounds seem to refuse to heal with the passing of time. O Virgin, Star of the Sea, Our Beloved Mother, we ask you to plead with your Son in our behalf so that spared from the calamities common to this area and animated with a true spirit of gratitude, we will walk in the footsteps of your Divine Son to reach the heavenly Jerusalem where a stormless eternity awaits us.  Amen (Fr. Al Volpe, Cameron Parish, LA, originally dedicated to the victims of Hurricane Audrey in 1957)

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the HolySpirit, one God for ever and ever. Amen

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 \$2,111
- July Budget \$8,444
- July Income \$7,372
- July Expenses \$8,303
- August Budget \$8,444
- Collection August 10/11 \$2,668
- August Income to Date \$5,859

**Stewardship ** In today’s second reading, St. Paul encourages us not to grow weary or lose heart, but to persevere in following Jesus.  Our willingness to give of ourselves, even in the face of conflict and division, is one way to measure our discipleship.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 6:00p In memory of Thomas Trichell/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tue 5:30p In memory of Billy Hodge/family
- Wed 5:30p In memory of John and Marie Johnson/family
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Fred Wyly/Magoun                Legacy Care Center
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Lillie “Mame” Jumonville/family
- Sat 5:30p Special Intention of Magoun family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of MaryAnne Gilfoil

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 8/17 6:00p
  _ Lector: C VanderVieren
  _ EMHCs: A Keene & MA Gilfoil
- 8/18 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Marsh & M Wood
  _ Lector: C Wood & C Sullivan \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 8/24 6:00p
  _ Lector: MA Gilfoil
  _ EMHCs: M Rome & L Magoun
- 8/25 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Sullivan & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: D Ellerbee \* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
- 8/31 6:00p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: C VanderVieren & L Bullard
- 9/1 9:00a
  _ Servers: P Collins & C Wood
  _ Lector: A Oliver \* EMHCs: Volunteers

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Teri W Brown (Aug 17), Kim Donham (Aug 19), Elizabeth Crothers (Aug 21)

**Happy Anniversary** Susan and Johnny Gilfoil (Aug 22), Louise and Dale Magoun (Aug 25), Mary Jane and Sidney Johnson (Aug 26)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, David Fortenberry, Thom Gilfoil, Melissa Grady (D Wood), Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Suzanne Paxton (Regan),  Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Yvonne Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
