---
title: The 32nd Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-11-10T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-11-10/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
  - "Marriage"
  - "Holiday Season"
  - "Christmas"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*"Those who are deemed worthy to attain to the coming age and to the resurrection of the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage.”*

If Marriage is a good thing - and it IS a good thing - then why does Jesus say there will be no Marriage in Heaven? An even better question might be: the Bible begins with marriage, only Marriage survives the Flood, Jesus’ first miracle is at a Wedding and the book of Revelation says that Heaven is a “Wedding Feast,” so what’s wrong with talking about Marriage in Heaven?

There are two things to keep in mind. First, Jesus is saying that unmarried people don’t get married in Heaven… That’s easy enough to understand. Heaven, after all, is entirely unlike Earth. The other thing to keep in mind, though, is that Marriage is all about a special relationship between two people that no one else shares and which has as its purpose new life in a family with children. Heaven is about perfect unity with God. If I am in perfect union with God and ten other people (or ten thousand) are in perfect union with God, then we are all in perfect union with one another. It isn’t possible to be more or less in union with anyone else if we’re all in perfect union with God. What’s more, there are no children to be born in Heaven and so Marriage - which is meant to be a sign and an image of God’s love - simply doesn’t make sense in the presence of that to which the sign points.

We, as humans, tend to project our own hopes and passions and fears onto other people and into the future. But Heaven just doesn’t work in such a way that we will desire any more than perfect union with God. And so my spouse, provided He or She gets the Thumbs Up from the Father at Judgement, will be right there with me, provided I get the Thumbs Up from the Father at Judgement. We will be as close to one another as we can be - but we will not be able to comprehend why we would want to be married to one another.

So what Jesus is saying is not derogatory toward Marriage, it’s clarifying the profound joy that awaits us in eternal life. He’s also helping us to understand why we need to be living in such a way as to make ready for this eternal union with God.


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


And so it has officially begun, the great chaos of the Holiday season. It’s tragic how much this season has become a cause for memes and anxiety and a shared sense of joy mingled with dread… We look at one another and we’re looking forward to certain parts of it so much! But there in the back of our minds are the worries about spending too much, eating too much, family squabbles, parties, presents, shopping, and, of course, pumpkin spice everything.

And experience would dictate that the rest of this article will be a call to try this year to see through all of that to the reason for the season or some other trite idea which seems helpful but will ultimately be washed away by the season. And so instead of hoping that we would focus on what matters and the like, my challenge this year is quite different. My challenge isn’t to change our thinking, but to change our choices.
Do less decoration. Cook simpler food. Buy fewer presents. Ingest less pumpkin spice… I’m not trying to be the Grinch, but imagine how freeing it would be to be able to say to friends, family and kids, that we’re being deliberately simply this holiday season…
There’s a show on Netflix called Tidying Up with Marie Kondo. The host is a Japanese lady with a special interest in applying the principles of Feng Shui to all aspects of life. I read her most popular book several years ago and he premise is easy enough: remove everything from your home and your life which aren’t important. Much like the tree landscaping on our new plot of land, if the tree doesn’t contribute to the beauty or health of the land, then why leave it there? In the same way, if that box of old junk in the closet doesn’t contribute to our family or to my life, why keep it? Kondo’s trademarked question is “does it spark joy?” She goes through someone’s home and asks this question about everything from socks to blenders. Why keep this nicknack on the mantle-piece when I can’t even remember who gave it to me? Does it spark joy?

We could ask the same thing about parts of our holiday season. Why put up so many lights? Why put up such a large tree? Does it bring something really special to the family? If it does, it should be given a place of prominence. If it doesn’t, it’s just distracting from those things that should be given prominence. 

What about gifts? What about all those events? What about worries? What about things that we feel are expected from us by others? Am I doing them well? Am I doing them for good reason? 

This time of year, we’re fishing out our winter clothes and all kinds of other things from boxes that we don’t think about for the rest of the year. It’s a perfect time to think about our priorities and to let this holiday season clarify, for us, what matters and what doesn’t. It’s a perfect time to think about what matters to my family and about what should matter and what should not matter.
As we settle into this holiday season, be not afraid to embrace a new thinking and, even moreso, be not afraid to embrace new choices which could well make this the best family holiday season yet.


---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* Nov 17	Potluck Brunch following 9 a.m. Mass - Fourth Quarter committee
* Dec15		Advent Retreat given by Father Dale Mead following 5:30 p.m. Mass

## For Your Information:

CHRISTMAS PARTY ON THE BAYOU RAFFLE...The Bar Cart  consisting of holiday items, foods, and beverages which is being raffled with a drawing around December 15, is on display at Tensas State Bank.   

POTLUCK BRUNCH SOCIAL..SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 17, following Mass to celebrate Fall and Thanksgiving!!!!  Check out your recipes for your favorite dish and plan to join in this Faith Family celebration for our many blessings. Ginny, Robert, and Sug will be setting up tables on Thursday and Blanche is arranging floral pieces on Saturday,  If any committee members want to assist, please feel free to contact one of them. The Fourth Quarter (Oct, Nov, Dec) Social Committee is composed of Terri Brown, Dorothy Dyer, Leslye Ellerbee, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, Sherry Lynn and Timmy Harris, Josephine Hodge, Michael Lancaster, Dale and Louise Magoun, Billy and Ginny Marsh, William and Sharyn Marsh, Hannah McCartney, Sug Regan, Skeeter and Blanche Wilks, Robert Wood, Edward and Margaret Yerger.

ANGEL TREE.. Next weekend, you will have the opportunity to select Angels that you may want to purchase gifts for during the Christmas season.  Dana Dukes is giving leadership to our Angel Tree project again this year. If you have questions, please contact her
 
RADIO MARIA...In May, 2020, Radio Maria USA, located here in the Diocese of Alexandria, will be celebrating its 20th Anniversary as the national headquarters for the only English-speaking network of Radio Maria in the United States!  It has grown from one station to now--11 frequencies in six states and still growing!  But Radio Maria exists solely on the generosity of donations and volunteers.  On the weekend of November 9010, a second collection will be taken to support this ministry.  Radio Maria has weekday Mass celebrated through a live broadcast at 8 a.m.  One can listen to Radio Maria on 580 AM or online at radiomaria.us or download the free RadioMaria USA app to listen on your phone anytime, anywhere!

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the HolySpirit, one God for ever and ever.  Amen


---

## Our Return to the Lord

* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* October Budget $8,444
* October Income $8,556
* October Expenses $8,475
* November Budget $8,444
* Collection November $3,010
* November Income to Date $3,010

**Stewardship** In today’s second reading, St. Paul prays that the Thessalonians may be strengthened”in every good deed and word.”  May we,too, be strengthened and empowered to use our time and talents for the good of others. 

**SPECIAL COLLECTION** this weekend, Nov 9/10, is for Radio Maria...see notes about Radio Maria in another part of the bulletin.


---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Donald Trichell for Birth Anniversary/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
* Mon		NO MASS
* Tue		NO MASS as Father Ryan in Texas
* Wed		NO MASS as Father Ryan in Texas
* Thu    	9:00a	In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/ Hodge  *Legacy Nursing Home*
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Becky Lancaster/Fulton                          
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of C.B. and Inez DeMoss/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Sug Regan.

## Assistants at Holy Mass

* 11/9 5:30p
    - Lector: A Farlow
    - EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
* 11/10 9:00a
    - Servers: C Marsh & M Wood
    - Lector: B Sullivan
    - EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
* 11/16 5:30p
    - Lector: M Rome
    - EMHCs: P & B Wilks
* 11/17 9:00a
    - Servers: C Sullivan & H Ellerbee
    - Lector: C Sullivan & C Marsh
    - EMHCs: C Howington & A Keene
* 11/23 5:30p
    - Lector: C VanderVieren
    - EMHCs: A Farlow & L Bullard
* 11/24 9:00a
    - Servers: P Collins & C Wood
    - Lector: D Ellerbee
    - EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Randy Dukes (Nov 11), Brian Johnson (Nov 11), Cathy VanDerVieren (Nov 13)

**Happy Anniversary** Marie and Norman Ernst (Nov 10), Frances and Jim Roemer (Nov 17)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal 

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), Toby and Karen Lepley (Keene), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Debbie Prine (Wilks), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart), Max Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.  

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
