---
title: The 23rd Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-09-08T12:00:00.000Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-09-08/"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
  - "Vocations"
description: ""
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
---

## From The Font

_“If any one comes to me without hating his father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple.”_

In modern English, we use the same word to describe a feeling, a choice and a moral value. If I say that I love pizza, I might mean that I have strong feelings or that I choose to eat pizza frequently or that pizza is good and right and just. Not all languages are so loosey-goosey with these kinds of differences, though.

In ancient Greek, the word μισέω (miseó) translates as “to hate.” But that word doesn’t really imply the emotion of passionate disdain or the moral judgement that something should be rejected or kept at a distance. Rather, it implies a choice to prioritize something less than something else. If I μισέω (miseó aka “hate”) my career and give priority to my family, then I’m probably doing things the right way. It’s certainly not the right word in English to convey the meaning, but c’est la vie.

I’ve never understood why today’s Gospel is translated the way it is. While it’s clear that Jesus is trying to make a very bold statement, It’s also very clear that He means “unless you prioritize me over and above everyone you love and even over and above your own life, you’re not really my disciple.” That’s still a pretty intense thing for Him to say and to mean!

As with so many of the teachings of Jesus, we have to remember that Jesus did not intend to teach via a book. He did not intend to have His teachings written down and translated into some other language by someone who may or may not believe in Jesus… so that they could be read without context and possibly without understanding. Jesus very clearly intended that His teachings would be taught by His Church and that the teaching would be through preaching and example, person-to-person.. Books aren’t bad… Jesus, Himself, read from the scroll in the synagogue. But St. Paul tells us  in Romans: “How are men to call upon him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without a preacher?”

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

This coming Saturday is the feast of the Triumph of the Cross. It’s a combined celebration of three amazing historical events and that makes it unique in the Church calendar.

First, the Triumph of the Holy Cross recalls the pilgrimage of St. Helena to Jerusalem. When Constantine became the first Christian Emperor of the Roman Empire, his mother, Helena, was very devout. She requested his permission to travel to the Holy Land and to try and find the relics of Jesus. She found Christians there protecting the true Cross, the steps of the Praetorium where Jesus met Pilate, the creche He was born in, the Crown of Thorns and the pillar at which He was scourged and numerous other relics.

As part of her journey, she had several massive Churches built, including one above the Holy Sepulcher where Jesus was buried for three days and one on Mt. Calvary. The second historical reason for the feast of the Triumph of the Holy Cross is the dedication of these two Churches.

The third event took place years later when the Emperor Heraclius II moved the Holy Cross and several other of the relics from Jerusalem to Rome.
But the historical events aren’t really the reason for the feast. They’re just the reason the feast is in September rather than June or October. The center of the Triumph of the Holy Cross is the triumph of Jesus who died a dishonorable and dehumanizing death after great suffering. Despite His suffering and death, Jesus rose from the dead. He conquered death by dying and He conquered suffering by suffering.

Our modern world is based upon the prevention of anything like suffering. We have pills and procedures to help us avoid physical suffering. We have more pills and platitudes and delusions and deceptions and entertainment to help us avoid mental anguish. We have everybody-goes-to-Heaven Christianity-lite to help us avoid spiritual anxiety. And we have screens to keep us from having to think or experience anything like silent reflection.

And yet Jesus offers us not just a means of avoiding suffering, but rather a way to conquer it. Many of the greatest saints experienced hunger and pain and loss and isolation and yet they considered all those as 100% worth it for the experience of joy and love they found in prayer.

Our kids feel that way when they’re on the football field (all the workouts and screaming coaches are worth it for them). People who love to garden or to knit or to play music consider the heat or the accidental needle sticks or the hours of practice to be 100% worth it. People in love consider the costs of love worth paying for the joy and fulfillment of love. Why should it be any different with the Lord.

The Triumph of the Holy Cross reminds us that the Cross is a Triumph, not a failure. So, too, our own trials and suffering are as nothing compared to the glory that is to be revealed in Christ Jesus for the one who takes up his cross and follows after Him.

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

- Sept 15 Youth Mass at 9 a.m. Mass -- Coffee and donuts following Mass
- Sept 15 Benediction following 9 a.m. Mass
- Sept 17 Pastoral Council Meeting – Parish Hall – following 5:30 p.m. Mass
- Sept 18 Wednesday Night Catechism  after 5:30 pm Mass

## For Your Information:

Through September, our schedule will be:

- Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
- Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
- Sun. 9am - Tallulah
- Sun. 11:00am - St. Joseph

COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS CHOIR PRACTICE... Sunday, September 8, at First Baptist Church at 4 p.m.  in the Choir Room. The music is “Come and See, Go and Tell.” Pass the word to everyone who would like to be a part of the program.  “Christmas on the Bayou” is scheduled for December 8.

YOUTH MASS is being observed NEXT SUNDAY and coffee, juice, and donuts will be served in the Church Center immediately following the 9 a.m. Mass.  Please join us!

PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,  at 6:00 p.m(after 5:30 p.m. Mass) in the Church Center.  
     Appointed members of the Council:  MaryAnne Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Michael Lancaster, Ginny Marsh, Beth Sullivan and Levi Washington.  Appointed as Trustees by the Bishop are Brian Johnson and Dale Magoun. Appointed by the pastor to serve as Finance Council Chair is Darryl Ellerbee.  Additionally, serving on the Council in an ex-officio capacity as President of the Altar Society is Cathy VanderVieren. All members are requested to make special effort to attend.
    Parishioners are encouraged to attend to contribute to the discussions.

WEDNESDAY EVENING CATECHISM...Wednesday, September 18... In the Hall, after the 5:30p Mass.  The topic for September is “Islam”. Father will answer questions after each talk. Guests are welcome!

NEW ALTAR SERVER TRAINING… those children who have made their First Communion and are interested in becoming altar servers will have the opportunity to have training this Fall.  Parents should contact Father Ryan for arranging a schedule that is mutually convenient.

PRAYER FOR HURRICANE SEASON… Our Father in heaven, through the powerful intercession of Our Lady of Prompt Succor, spare us from all harm during this hurricane season, and protect us and our homes from all disasters of nature.  Our Lady of Prompt Succor, hasten to our help. Amen

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope, and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ, your Son our Lord, in the unity of the HolySpirit, one God for ever and ever. Amen

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 \$2,111
- August Budget \$8,444
- August Income \$8,516
- August Expenses \$7,836
- September Budget \$8,444
- Collection August 31/Sept 1 \$1,065
- September Income to Date \$1,065

**Stewardship ** Jesus tells the crowd that only those who renounce all of their possessions can be His disciples.  Is He truly asking us to give up EVERYTHING?  Perhaps instead He is trying to help us see that everything we think we own is really a gift from God.   Good stewards know that and strive to use those gifts accountably.

**SPECIAL COLLECTION** for support of the Catholic University of America which supports 6,000 students who are seeking a faith-filled education at the graduate and undergraduate level with 180 academic programs.

**STEWARDSHIP OF TIME AND TALENT**Would you like to serve our faith family as a Lector or as a Eucharistic Minister??  If so, please contact Libby Bullard (574-1736) for training. Parents…if you would like your child to be an Altar Server, please contact Father Ryan.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

Sat 6:00p In memory of Matt Farlow/Scott
Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
Mon NO MASS
Tue 5:30p In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/Hodge
Wed 5:30p In memory of Gus Gremshell 
Thu 9:00a In memory of Beverly Lancaster/family           Legacy Care Center
Fri 5:30p In memory of J. C. B. “Skeezix” Jumonville (birth)/family
Sat 6:00p In memory of R. L. Reynolds (death)/family
Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES  this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 9/7 6:00p
  _ Lector: P Wilks
  _ EMHCs: B Wilks & L Magoun
- 9/8 9:00a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan & M Wood
  _ Lector: K Collins \* EMHCs: B Smith & L Magoun
- 9/14 6:00p
  _ Lector: M Rome
  _ EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
- 9/15 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Marsh & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: P Collins/H Ellerbee \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 9/21 6:00p
  _ Lector: MA Gilfoil
  _ EMHCs: C VanderVieren & L Bullard
- 9/22 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Sullivan & C Wood
  _ Lector: D Ellerbee  \* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Kathleen Ellerbee (Sept 8), Lori Sullivan (Sept 11), Dan Copes (Sept 12)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, David Fortenberry, Thom Gilfoil, Melissa Grady (D Wood), Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Suzanne Paxton (Regan),  Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Yvonne Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart), Max Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
