---
title: The 27th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-10-06T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-10-06/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
  - "Rosary"
  - "Humility"
  - "Scripture"
  - "St Dominic"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*“Increase our faith...”
“...we are unprofitable servants...”*

Many societies in history have expressed complicated ideas by connecting ideas that can seem, at first, to be disconnected. In today’s Gospel, the Apostles make a straightforward request which includes an implied question. They ask the Lord to increase their faith and they ask implicitly what they must do to grow in faith. 

Jesus replies with two answers… First, He implies that faith doesn’t so much need to be increased as it needs to be used and put into force. It’s not a lack of faith that the apostles should pay attention to, but the lack of will to use that faith. Then, Jesus switches gears and addresses the implied question about what we must do to grow both in faith and in the will to use that faith… And His teaching is humility…

It seems to come entirely out of left-field. Should we see ourselves as the masters in the story or should we see ourselves as the servants? Is faith the master in the story? Should I see myself as the master of my faith or its servant? After all, I’m supposed to use my faith, right?. Is it an admonishment? Is Jesus subtly referencing the faith of the Apostles which has not moved mountains?

One of the most wonderful things about scripture is that it is both clear and yet it has a depth of mystery which can never really be contained. The clear message is that humility is needed to grow in faith. But at the same time, there isn’t a right way or a wrong way to meditate upon the scripture. I can certainly see myself in the role of the master. I can see myself as the servant of faith and, in a certain sense, as its master. I can think about what “putting on an apron” might mean in my life this month and when I come across the same Gospel next year, I can think about something totally different.

Genuine humility recognizes that the Lord is utterly beyond me and His scriptures are comparably unfathomable. And so when we approach the scripture, we must be suitably humbled and yet adventurous in our trust in the Holy Spirit - in our Faith in the Lord.


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

In the year 1214, St. Dominic was in the small village of Prouille in southern France. The Blessed Virgin Mary appeared to Him and told him to encourage the lay-people of the Church to pray a new prayer that she called the Rosary.

This was a big deal! For one, this was the first time that the laity was given a prayer especially its own. All of the other prayers of the Church were theoretically for everyone, but most folks couldn’t read and hadn’t studied theology or history and so the idea of reading the psalms (or any part of the bible) as the monks did was impossible. The laity could certainly attend Mass, but even when parts of the Mass were read aloud in their vernacular, the elevated language and complicated ideas were just too much for most folks to comprehend. There had actually been traditions of praying with the help of knotted ropes or prayer beads going back to the so-called “Desert Fathers” (e.g. St. Anthony of Egypt, St. John Cassian). But these were usually limited to the hermit-monks who lived all day in penance. So when Our Lady appeared to St. Dominic, who like St. Francis, was especially devoted to helping the lay-people grow in holiness, he was delighted to run with it. 

The Rosary was designed around 15 “decades” (sets of 10) of the Ave Maria (the Hail Mary). Over time, the Paternoster (Our Father) and Gloriapatri (Glory Be) was added. The creed and Salve Regina came later. Of course, Our Lady at Fatima added the so-called “Fatima prayers.” The 15 decades weren’t random, they were meant to echo the 150 psalms that every priest and monk was obliged to pray every day in the “Divine Office.” The 150 Hail Marys allowed the busier lay-people to participate in this aspect of the life of the Church and to meditate upon the mysteries of the life of Mary and Jesus while doing so. The Dominican Order took special care to develop the Rosary. They are mostly responsible for the standardizing of the Rosary and of the Joyful, Sorrowful and Glorious Mysteries which are typically prayed today.

This month of October is dedicated to Our Lady of the Rosary because of the feast on October 7 which commemorates the visit of Our Lady to St. Dominic in 1214. It’s especially important for us in light of the many appearances of Our Lady in our own time. In every visit, she has repeated with increasing urgency the need to pray the Rosary daily. 

Never before has it been easier to pray the Rosary. There are free rosaries in almost every Catholic Church you walk into. There are almost always pamphlets or instructional booklets available. There are websites, mobile apps, free recordings, televised recordings, radio recordings and even a VR recording for those who would like to put on their Oculus Rift and pray with the sisters. And, of course, in the absence of all of this, most of us have ten fingers or ten knuckles or ten toes that will serve very well to help us keep count as we offer this prayer which is clearly so important to Our Lady.

Let’s all make an effort in this month of the Rosary to pray it daily!


---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_


- October 6	Sunday morning Catechism following 9 a.m. Mass (10 a.m.)
- October 8	Altar Society Meeting – Parish Hall – following 5:30 p.m. Mass
- Oct 12/13	Feast of St Edward the Confessor celebrated 
- October 15	Pastoral Council Meeting – Parish Hall – following 5:30 p.m. Mass
- October 16	Wednesday Night Catechism  after 5:30 pm Mass 
- October 18	Quarterly Healing Mass at 5:30 p.m.
- Nov 17	Potluck Brunch following 9 a.m. Mass - Fourth Quarter committ

## For Your Information:

Our current Mass schedule is (and hopefully, will be for a good long while): 

- Sat. 5:30pm - Holy Mass
- Sun. 9am - Holy Mass in Tallulah
- Sun. 10am - Sunday Morning Catechism
- Sun. 11:15am - Holy Mass in Delhi

ALTAR SOCIETY… will meet on TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, after 5:30 p.m. Mass in the Church Center.  All the ladies of the church are asked to make special effort to attend this meeting as a support to the spiritual life of our church as well as support to the physical needs in the Sanctuary of the church!  Please be in prayer for the success of this group as there are many spiritual needs for which this group can lend support.

PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15,  at 6:00 p.m(after 5:30 p.m. Mass) in the Church Center.  Appointed members of the Council:  MaryAnne Gilfoil,  Josephine Hodge, Michael Lancaster, Ginny Marsh, Beth Sullivan and Levi Washington.  Appointed as Trustees by the Bishop are Brian Johnson and Dale Magoun.  Appointed by the pastor to serve as Finance Council Chair is Darryl Ellerbee.  Additionally, serving on the Council in an ex-officio capacity as President of the Altar Society will be Cathy VanderVieren. All members are requested to make special effort to attend.  Parishioners are encouraged to attend contribute to the discussions.  

HEALING MASS… Every few months, our usual Friday evening Daily Mass will be offered especially for the sick parishioners of our parish and Father with offer the Sacrament of the Anointing of the Sick for those of advanced age or those suffering serious health conditions. This quarter’s  Healing Masses will be offered on October 18.

WEDNESDAY EVENING CATECHISM... In the Church, after the 5:30p Mass.  Father will answer questions after each talk. Guests are welcome!  Topic for October 16: The Church in American History

NEW ALTAR SERVER TRAINING… those children who have made their First Communion and are interested in becoming altar servers will have the opportunity to have training this Fall.  Parents should contact Father Ryan for arranging a schedule that is mutually convenient.

PROTECTING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go on line regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.
“Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse. 
“Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide”
The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential. 


---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
- August Budget $8,444
- August Income $8,516
- August Expenses $7,836
- September Budget $8,444
- Collection Sept 28/29 $1,050
- September Income to Date $8,049

**Stewardship** When will I have given enough--of my income, of my time, of my talents?  Today’s Gospel suggests that only total stewardship will do:  “When you have done all you have been commanded to do, say ‘We are useless servants.  We have done no more than our duty.’” 

**GROCERY TICKETS FROM DOUG’S** thanks to those of you who save their grocery receipts for us!!!  Since July 2017 to the current date, the Altar Society has received reimbursement of $663.23 for those receipts.  Those monies are applied to support of the supplies for the sanctuary such as hosts, wine, candles, altar linen, etc...Keep those receipts coming!



---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat	5:30p	In memory of Carroll Regan/family
- Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon		NO MASS
- Tue	5:30p	In memory of John “Skeezix” Jumonville (death)/family
- Wed	5:30p	For Father Ryan’s Special Intention
- Thu	9:00a	In memory of Gus Gremshell    Legacy      
- Fri	5:30p	For the special intention of Daniel Cranie
- Sat	5:30p	In memory of Charlie Phillips (death anni 13th)/family
- Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Sug Regan

## Assistants at Holy Mass

* 10/5 6:00p
    - Lector: L Bullard
    - EMHCs: MA Gilfoil & A Keene
* 10/6 9:00a
    - Servers: TBA
    - Lector: B Sullivan
    - EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
* 10/12 5:30p
    - Lector: A Farlow
    - EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
* 10/13 9:00a
    - Servers: TBA
    - Lector: A Oliver
    - EMHCs: N & M Ernst
* 10/19 5:30
    - Lector: M Rome
    - EMHCs: C VanderVieren & L Magoun
* 10/20 9:00a
    - Servers: TBA
    - Lector: P Collins/M Wood
    - EMHCs: Smith & K Collins

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Margaret Yerger (Oct 5), Sharyn Marsh (Oct 8), Marsh Wood (Oct 11), Sidney Johnson (Oct 13) 

**Happy Anniversary** Sharyn and William Marsh (Oct 5)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal 

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Ted Osborne, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Debbie Prine (Wilks), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart), Max Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.  


> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
