---
title: The 16th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-07-13T21:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-07-21/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me by myself to do the serving? Tell her to help me…”_

Correcting our neighbor’s behavior is a part of loving our neighbor. The fancy words are “admonish” and “exhort.” But it’s remarkably easy to slide from “love thy neighbor” to pity thyself. Is Martha asking the Lord to correct Mary’s behavior or is she asking Him to lighten her own load? Is she asking out of love for her sister or for pity of herself?

The Lord told us last week that to inherit Eternal Life, we must love Him with all our heart, soul, mind and strength and our neighbor as ourselves… There’s a clear one, two, three hierarchy of priority. Of course, the very existence of number two and number three means that loving the Lord will not take 100% of our time and energy and neither will loving our neighbor. There’s a legitimate call here to love ourselves and not to overtax ourselves or to ignore the genuine needs of our own heart, soul, mind and strength. Still, Martha’s request of the Lord seems at odds with this Divine order…

Typically, we read this passage in the context of Jesus’ reply to Martha which is to say that Mary, by sitting quietly and listening to Jesus, has made a better choice than Martha who is taking care of the busy-work. And that’s clearly something St. Mark wants to teach us by including this story in his Gospel. But there’s also a significant parallel between this story and the Prodigal Son in which the dutiful sibling gets the raw deal and the other sibling is resentful. The older brother of the Prodigal and Martha have both been dutiful, but they’ve also both misunderstood that God is love and love is more valuable and more important than duty. Both also have hidden bad intentions and both need a hard lesson.

This passage calls for us to look within at our intentions and whether or not we are dutiful to the Lord out of real love or for some other reason. It also calls us to question the intention behind the other choices and decisions and dispositions which make up our day to day lives as Christians and as people living in the world.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

This Friday is the feast of Saints Joahim and Anne, the parents of the Virgin Mary and the grandparents of Jesus. They are, unsurprisingly, the patrons of grandparents and so this Friday is the Church’s official grandparents’ day.

Grandparents were a giant part of the lives of Jewish children. Just as today, most fathers were at work throughout the day. Mothers stayed home to care for the kids, but without running water, refrigerators or the Ron Popeil Set-it-and-forget-it Rotisserie Oven™, moms had to spend their day getting water from the town well, collecting firewood and kindling, and visiting the market or individual vendors to buy wheat and oil and meat and veggies for the day. They needed someone to watch the kids and while grandparents weren’t the only babysitters around, they were a great resource. The rich had tutors, and the poor had the elderly. Widows usually came to live with their sons. Widowers were rare, but disabled older men often did the same. The culture of Judaism was a culture of songs and stories rather than books of philosophy. They sang the psalms. They sang songs of heros and songs that told the stories in the books of Genesis and Exodus and Joshua and Kings. They told dramatic stories around the campfire and they danced. The Jews were big fans of dancing. They were also huge fans of gossip which grandparents back then were especially fond of…

Grandparents have played different roles in societies throughout history. As recently as ten years ago, it seemed that grandparents were being indiscriminately tossed into old-folks homes and their contribution was being unappreciated. But societal troubles of all sorts have found many grandparents raising their grandchildren as primary care guardians… And while that’s not ideal for all sorts of reasons, there’s been a real recovery in the appreciation in our world of the value and contribution that the wisened and the aged have to make in contemporary society. In a world obsessed with the newest and the latest and in a world convinced that social media is meaningful, grandparents provide an anchor and a grounding in just how little “progress” we’ve made as a society in the past fifty years.

Even beyond functioning as a memory, grandparents play a major role in the living tradition of Christian society. GK Chesterton, the great English Catholic poet and writer, said that “tradition is the democracy of the dead.” He argues that just because someone isn’t alive at this moment, that doesn’t mean they don’t have a contribution to make. The aged represent a kind of virtuous Christian nostalgia for the ages which goes beyond memory to a living love for the Holy Spirit at work in ages past.

This Friday, I ask everyone to take some time to thank God for your grandparents, living or deceased, and to ask the Lord to make the grandparents living in our community good and holy vessels for the living memory of the Church and the work of the Holy Spirit now and before.

Come Holy Spirit! Ss. Joachim and Anne, pray for all our grandparents!

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

- July 24 Sabbatical Trip report by Father Ryan following 5:30 p.m. Mass
- July 27 Seminarian Barbecue - St Mary Catholic Church - Winnsboro.  See notes elsewhere

## For Your Information:

Through September, our schedule will be:

- Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
- Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
- Sun. 9am - Tallulah
- Sun. 11:00am - St. Joseph

SABBATICAL TRIP - PART TWO… Father Ryan will present the second and final part of pictures and narrative of his trip last Fall.  It appears that the best Wednesday in July is the 24th. This will be about 6 p.m. in the Church Hall (following 5:30 p.m. Mass).

SEMINARIANS BARBECUE … is scheduled for Saturday, July 27, at St Mary Catholic Church in Winnsboro.  Flyers can be found at the entrance to church. Please advise our church office or Father Ryan if you can participate.

PRAYER FOR HURRICANE SEASON… O God, Master of this passing world, hear the humble voices of your children.  The Sea of Galilee obeyed your order and returned to its former quietude; you are still the Master of land and sea.  We live in the shadow of a danger over which we have no control. The Gulf, like a provoked and angry giant, can awake from its seeming lethargy, overstep its conventional boundaries, invade our land and spread chaos and disaster.  During this hurricane season, we turn to You, O loving Father. Spare us from past tragedies whose memories are still so vivid and whose wounds seem to refuse to heal with the passing of time. O Virgin, Star of the Sea, Our Beloved Mother, we ask you to plead with your Son in our behalf so that spared from the calamities common to this area and animated with a true spirit of gratitude, we will walk in the footsteps of your Divine Son to reach the heavenly Jerusalem where a stormless eternity awaits us.  Amen (Fr. Al Volpe, Cameron Parish, LA, originally dedicated to the victims of Hurricane Audrey in 1957)

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 \$2,111
- June Budget \$9,585
- June Income \$8,808
- June Expenses \$8,817
- July Budget \$8,444
- Collection July 13/14 \$3,237
- July Income to Date \$4,880

**Stewardship ** Today’s readings speak of hospitality.  Abraham, who cheerfully did for his guests all that desert hospitality required, was rewarded with his heart’s desire--a son.  Martha also busied herself with all the details of hospitality, but grudgingly and with complaint. Am I a cheerful or a grudging giver?

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 6:00p In memory of E.A.”Jim” Jumonville (birth on 21st)/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tue 5:30p In memory of Jackson Jumonville/family
- Wed 5:30p       In memory of Rosa Gremshell
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Joe Scurria/Harris                  Legacy Nursing Home
- Fri 5:30p In memory of John and Marie Johnson/family
- Sat 6:00p In memory of SeSe and Racer Holstead for wedding anniversary/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 7/20 6:00p
  _ Lector: M Rome
  _ EMHCs: A Farlow & L Magoun
- 7/21 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Marsh & C Wood
  _ Lector: C Marsh & W Sullivan \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 7/27 6:00p
  _ Lector: P Wilks
  _ EMHCs: C VanderVieren & L Bullard
- 7/28 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Sullivan & M Wood
  _ Lector: D Ellerbee \* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
- 8/3 6:00p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: MA Gilfoil & A Keene
- 8/4 9:00a
  _ Servers: P Collins & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: A Oliver \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Kendra Collins (July 21), Preston Collins (July 22), Sue Scurria (July 22), Nap Book (July 26)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Melissa Grady (D Wood), Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Yvonne Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
