---
title: The 31st Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-11-03T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-11-03/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
  - "The Last Things"
  - "Hospitality"
  - "Opportunities"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*"Zacchaeus, come down quickly, for today I must stay at your house."*

In most societies, hosting an important guest has been considered a great honor. Surely, there’s the prestige and the sense of “look at me, I’m amazing because this great person chose me.” But even more than that, there’s the freedom to talk with and to experience the great person in a casual and informal way. Most of us would love the opportunity to visit with a favorite actor or musician behind the scenes: shoes off, no cameras and no celebrity talk. How much more amazing is that when the person in question is not merely famous or talented but has some truly amazing wisdom or knowledge! 

Zacchaeus has just this chance when Jesus chooses his home. Surely, Zacchaeus would be free to ask Jesus questions or seek His advice. And when Jesus gives him advice, Zacchaeus responds generously.

In our own lives, we have plenty of opportunities to show similar hospitality to Jesus. In the world around us, we have the
poor and the sick. We have the unexpected guest. We have the neighbor we don’t especially like. We have the co-worker or the volunteer-committee-member who gets on our nerves. We also have a pastor who likes to be invited to supper…

In the spiritual life, we have opportunities of a different kind but no less numerous. In prayer and fasting and works of mercy and temptations and hard choices, we encounter the Holy Spirit making Jesus present to us and sharing with us the Gifts of the Holy Spirit. We have the opportunity to ask Jesus questions and to seek His advice. We have the opportunity to hide our sorrows in His heart and to look - with Him - into our own hearts. 

The Lord is never far from us, but that doesn’t mean that we’re always as aware as we should be of His presence and that doesn’t mean that we take advantage of the opportunities that the Lord gives us to be near to him. 
If we hope to hear the Lord’s invitation to spend eternity with Him in Heaven, we should plan to extend that same invitation to Him!


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


This Wednesday, after the 5:30p daily Mass, I’ll host a talk about “The Last Things.” Specifically, this talk with flesh out for us the difference between Heaven and Hell as Jesus teaches us and all of the other common Western ideas about the afterlife. The Jews, for example, believed in Sheol whereas the Romans and Greeks believed in Hades. The less common religions of England, Scotland, Norse Scandinavia are more complicated, but we’ll touch on them as well. 

The Eastern religions have a ton of wildly differing ideas about the after-life. The Hindus, Buddhists, Confucians, Taoists, and Chinese nature religions are easy complicated enough to fill a college semester, so I’ll touch on them only very briefly. I’ll also speak about Purgatory and Limbo.

This is worth understanding because these Last Things are where the rubber meets the road. They’re a big part of why we’re all living the lives we are. The more we’re interested in them, the more morally-driven our lives will be. The less we care about the Last Things, the more selfish and narcissistic we will be.

This talk also matters because SO MANY uninformed nitwits feel compelled to chime in with their hair-brained musings on eternity. They’ve thought about the end for 25 minutes and think they’ve come to some interesting conclusions… Well, they haven’t. Neither the Ghost Hunters nor Greta the Palm Reader nor that weirdo on the History Channel has any idea what they’re talking about and so they recycle old vocabulary to make it sound spooky and to make it as un-Christian as possible and they think they’ve understood something… 

We, as Christians, need to know the real teaching of Jesus and His Church because Judgement is NOT automatic. Salvation does not come from professing Jesus and Purgatory is not an optional belief. On the contrary, If we live according to the Protestant misunderstanding of “being saved” or according to the Hindu notion of Karma or trusting ourselves to the Roman notion of Hades, we may find ourselves ignoring those aspects of the Christian religion which are most necessary to enter into Heaven. 

A strong understanding of what makes for entry into Heaven helps to reorient our Christian lives by providing a clearer sense of focus in even the smallest matters of our daily Christian journey. Take, for example, contrition. Christians are taught by Jesus to be sorry for all of our sins with our whole hearts. If, though, I embrace the Calvinist idea of Salvation by profession of faith, then I may believe myself to be “saved” and have no reverence at all for contrition. I may say to myself (to paraphrase the Gospel), “I am saved by faith and so now I can eat, drink and be merry…” but this idea of salvation ignores gigantic parts of Jesus’ teaching! If I don’t understand that Heaven is accessed by contrition more than Faith, then I may be condemned by that ignorance and the vice that it engenders without my even realizing it!

I hope you’ll come out for the talk this Wednesday!


---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* Nov 6	Wednesday night Catechism -- following 5:30 p.m. Mass … “The Last Things”
* Nov 17	Potluck Brunch following 9 a.m. Mass - Fourth Quarter committee

## For Your Information:

RADIO MARIA...In May, 2020, Radio Maria USA, located here in the Diocese of Alexandria, will be celebrating its 20th Anniversary as the national headquarters for the only English-speaking network of Radio Maria in the United States!  It has grown from one station to now--11 frequencies in six states and still growing!  But Radio Maria exists solely on the generosity of donations and volunteers.  On the weekend of November 9010, a second collection will be taken to support this ministry.  Radio Maria has weekday Mass celebrated through a live broadcast at 8 a.m.  One can listen to Radio Maria on 580 AM or online at radiomaria.us or download the free RadioMaria USA app to listen on your phone anytime, anywhere!

CHRISTMAS PARTY ON THE BAYOU RAFFLE...as a continuing part of our fundraising related to the purchase of the adjacent property, we will be having a raffle of holiday items, foods, and beverages with a drawing around December 15.  Betty Smith and Kendra Collins are giving leadership to this project.  Items that they still need to complete the Bar Cart include the following if you would like to add to the Cart:  2 Bamboo cheese boards, carved wood serving bowl, 2 serving platters, 5 kitchen/bar towels,  6 individual guest plates, 4 high-ball glasses, assorted frozen party snacks, venison sausage and assorted liquors and wine.  Contact Betty or Kendra as to how you can assist with this churchwide activity. 
     Raffle tickets are available for selling. Contact Cathy VanderVieren to acquire some.

POTLUCK BRUNCH SOCIAL..SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 17, following Mass to celebrate Fall and Thanksgiving!!!!  Check out your recipes for your favorite dish and plan to join in this Faith Family celebration for our many blessings. Setting up for the event will be the Fourth Quarter (Oct, Nov, Dec) Social Committee- Dorothy Dyer, Leslye Ellerbee, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, Sherry Lynn and Timmy Harris, Josephine Hodge, Michael Lancaster, Dale and Louise Magoun, Billy and Ginny Marsh, William and Sharyn Marsh, Hannah McCartney, Sug Regan, Skeeter and Blanche Wilks, Robert Wood, Edward and Margaret Yerger.

ANGEL TREE..Dana Dukes will be giving leadership to our Angel Tree project again this year.  If you know of a family that you feel is needy and deserving of being nominated, please advise our church office or Dana. More information to follow….

EMPOWERING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go on line regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.
“Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse. 
“Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide”
The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential. 

**PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the HolySpirit, one God for ever and ever.  Amen**

---

## Our Return to the Lord


* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* September Budget $8,444
* September Income $8,049
* September Expenses $8,147
* October Budget $8,444
* Collection October 26/27 $1,320
* October Income to Date $8,456


**Stewardship** We are called to be good stewards of our personal vocations.  St Paul’s prayer for the Thessalonians is, therefore, ours too-- “that our God may make (us) worthy of his calling and powerfully bring to fulfillment every good purpose and every effort of faith. 

SPECIAL COLLECTION...next weekend, Nov 9/10, is for Radio Maria...see notes about Radio Maria in another part of the bulletin.


---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

Sat	5:30p	In memory of Eva and R. L. Reynolds/Bullard
Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
Mon		NO MASS
Tue	5:30p	In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/Hodge
Wed	5:30p	In memory of Poche Adams/Regan
Thu	9:00a	In memory of Eva and R. L. Reynolds/Bullard *Legacy Nursing Home*
Fri	5:30p	In memory of Becky Lancaster/Vedros                            
Sat	5:30p	In memory of Donald Trichell for Birth Anniversary/family
Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Sug Regan

## Assistants at Holy Mass


* 11/2 5:30p
    - Lector: C VanderVieren
    - EMHCs: L Bullard & Volunteer
* 11/3 9:00a
    - Servers: W Sullivan & C Wood
    - Lector: J Howington
    - EMHCs: N & M Ernst
* 11/9 5:30p
    - Lector: A Farlow
    - EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
* 11/10 9:00a
    - Servers: C Marsh & M Wood
    - Lector: B Sullivan
    - EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
* 11/16 5:30p
    - Lector: M Rome
    - EMHCs: P & B Wilks
* 11/17 9:00a
    - Servers: C Sullivan & H Ellerbee
    - Lector: C Sullivan & C Marsh
    - EMHCs: C Howington & A Keene

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday**… Jason Trichell (Nov 5), Randy Dukes (Nov 11), Brian Johnson (Nov 11) 

**Happy Anniversary**…Stephenie and Lance Marsh (Nov 6), Marie and Norman Ernst (Nov 10)


## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria (Texas), Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal 

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), Toby and Karen Lepley (Keene), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Debbie Prine (Wilks), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart), Max Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.  

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
