---
title: The 18th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-08-04T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-08-04/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“...rest, eat, drink, be merry...”_

The Lord wants what is truly good for us. All too often what seems good right now is not really good for us at all. There are too many examples in each of our lives to count wherein we made a decision for something that seemed like the right thing for us in the moment and with only a little perspective, we can now recognize how short-sighted and maybe even deluded we were.

The world, on the other hand, is always oriented toward right now. Advertisers want us to buy their goods right now. They want us to believe that waiting or thinking too much would deprive us of something. Politicians thrive on crisis and on making us believe that if we don’t do what they recommend right now, then the world will fall to pieces. Even those we love and who love us in return can only see a very small perspective of their own lives and even less of our lives. And, of course, we have to factor in, too, people who are malicious and who want to hurt other people because of their own hurts and pains. All in all, the world is a generally bad advisor.

And yet, all through history, the world has constantly been the champion of what we see in today’s Gospel: “...rest, eat, drink, be merry...” But in reality, we know that what is good for us is almost never indulgence for its own sake. Neither health, nor wealth, nor success, nor holiness comes from plenty of indulgence.

Now, there are certainly times for rest and for celebration and for rejoicing… But those times are always counterbalanced with times for penance and work and sobriety. When they work in tandem, fasting and feasting are a powerful blessing and a great force for good, but when one is favored to the exclusion of the other, we risk discovering as the author of the first reading did that many things in this world are nothing more than vanity and that vanities are, ultimately, vain. They lack depth and they lack the ability to create real happiness, joy and peace.

As we come to the end of the summer break, let us be thankful for the rest and leisure as well as for the work and focus that the end of summer requires from all of us.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

As I mentioned a few weeks ago, our Altar Rail has been restored.

Altar Rails were in use in the Church about 1200 years before pews showed up on the scene. They are ubiquitous in country churches, grand cathedrals, monastery chapels and even the private oratories of royal families and popes. The rail has an architectural \ symbolic purpose, a theological meaning and several practical advantages.

Symbolically, rails separate. The sanctuary is meant to symbolize Heaven where the saints eternally praise “the Lamb who was Slain and yet Lives” (c.f. Rev 1, 3, 5-7, 8, 11, 12). The Nave - where the faithful gather - symbolizes this world where we try to orient ourselves toward heaven. The rail is the firm reminder of the veil which separates this world from that and which was torn in two upon the death of the Lord Jesus (c.f. Mt 27:51). When we approach for Holy Communion, that veil is lifted for a moment when we receive the Lord of Heaven into our earthly bodies.

Theologically, the rail also identifies the fundamental difference between the laity and the priesthood. While the priest is no better a person, not morally superior, not intellectually superior, not “better” in any human way, he is “configured” to Christ the Head (Christus Capitis) of the Church. As such, his proper place - theologically - is in the sanctuary and he is bound there by his nature as an ordained priest. The rail locks him in, so to speak, and identifies the separation between the clergy and the laity which is a real separation and not merely an “accidental” one.

Practically, the rail manages to make Holy Communion faster while also giving each person more time to prepare and to give thanks and, all the while, making it less likely that anyone will steal the host - accidentally or on purpose.

Approaching in a line or queue means that each communicant takes as much as five or six seconds. Two lines may speed that up, but not all that much. In the line, everyone is constantly moving in little steps and so no one can pause and reflect or prepare. And then, when you finally get to the front, you have to rush to make a sign of reverence, answer the dialogue, receive, usher kids, and get out of the way for others. Nothing in that process encourages reverence. At the rail, though, the priest moves rather than the line. So each person walks several steps forward in line and then waits for a place at the rail. When a place opens, they go and have as much as a minute to pray and prepare. After receiving, they can take a moment for thanks and then move reverently back to the pew. Even with the line for the chalice at each side, the whole process is smoother and the entire process of Holy Communion should be noticeably shorter.

TO BE CLEAR, in the United States, you can receive Holy Communion on the tongue (preferred) or in the hand. You can do so standing or kneeling. Nothing about the use of an altar changes any of that. You are free to receive as is your right. All that will change next weekend is the flow of the line and the location of each individual’s Holy Communion.

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

## For Your Information:

Through September, our schedule will be:

- Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
- Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
- Sun. 9am - Tallulah
- Sun. 11:00am - St. Joseph

POTLUCK BRUNCH … Date to be announced…. following 9 a.m. Mass will be our Third Quarter (July, Aug, Sept) Social.  The Committee consists of Shannon and Bart Wood and Betty and Kenny Smith, co-chairs, MaryKathryn Book, Kendra and Dave Collins, Connie and Dan Copes, Bruce and Kate Copes, Dana and Randy Dukes, Lance and Stephenie Marsh, Susie and Terry Murphy, Peggy and Phil Scurria, Beth and Chip Sullivan

PROTECTING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go on line regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.
• “Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse.  
• “Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide” 
The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential.

PRAYER FOR HURRICANE SEASON… O God, Master of this passing world, hear the humble voices of your children.  The Sea of Galilee obeyed your order and returned to its former quietude; you are still the Master of land and sea.  We live in the shadow of a danger over which we have no control. The Gulf, like a provoked and angry giant, can awake from its seeming lethargy, overstep its conventional boundaries, invade our land and spread chaos and disaster.  During this hurricane season, we turn to You, O loving Father. Spare us from past tragedies whose memories are still so vivid and whose wounds seem to refuse to heal with the passing of time. O Virgin, Star of the Sea, Our Beloved Mother, we ask you to plead with your Son in our behalf so that spared from the calamities common to this area and animated with a true spirit of gratitude, we will walk in the footsteps of your Divine Son to reach the heavenly Jerusalem where a stormless eternity awaits us.  Amen (Fr. Al Volpe, Cameron Parish, LA, originally dedicated to the victims of Hurricane Audrey in 1957)

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 \$2,111
- June Budget \$9,585
- June Income \$8,808
- June Expenses \$8,817
- July Budget \$8,444
- Collection July 27/28 \$1,335
- July Income to Date \$7,372

**Stewardship** Seeing Jesus transfigured made Peter want to do something to mark the event.  But the Voice from the cloud said clearly that the first task of those who recognizeJesus as Lord is to listen to Jesus--and then act!

**Special Collection** next weekend (August 10-11) the collection for the Solidarity Fund for the Church in Africa will be taken.  This collection supports the growing Catholic faith in Africa and your assistance is needed to ensure its success.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 6:00p In memory of Charlie Phillips (for Aug 1)/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tue 5:30p In memory of Matt Farlow/Scott
- Wed 5:30p In memory of Gus Gremshell
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Joe Scurria/Lancaster                 Legacy Care Center
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Becky Lancaster/Laurent
- Sat 5:30p In memory of MattFarlow/Scott
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of MaryAnne Gilfoil

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 8/3 6:00p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: MA Gilfoil & M Gilfoil
- 8/4 9:00a
  _ Servers: P Collins & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: A Oliver \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 8/10 6:00p
  _ Lector: L Bullard
  _ EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
- 8/11 9:00a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan & C Wood
  _ Lector: B Sullivan \* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
- 8/17 6:00p
  _ Lector: C VanderVieren
  _ EMHCs: P & B Wilks
- 8/18 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Marsh & M Wood
  _ Lector: C Wood & C Sullivan \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Philip Scurria (Aug 6)

**Happy Anniversary** Margaret and Pat Gilfoil (August 3), Kim and Ronnie Donham (August 4)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives
Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell
Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal
Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Melissa Grady (D Wood), Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Yvonne Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)
Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood
Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
