---
title: The Sixth Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-02-17T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-02-17/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“Jesus came down with the twelve and stood on a stretch of level ground”_

In our modern world of HD TV, professional stage design and quality sound systems - we don’t give a lot of thought to where we speak from. Politicians rent a building or build a stage wherever and they set up TVs and speakers if the crowd gets big.

When Jesus speaks, He always chooses the place carefully and when the Gospel mentions the place specifically, you can bet it was important.

For the Jews, mountains are where people go to hear God speak to them. Think about the Ten Commandments, the Transfiguration and the Sermon on the Mount. The Water symbolizes disorder, the chaos of worldly life and the uncontrollable parts of the world. The desert is a place of abandonment and punishment. The city is where the community lives and it’s a place of inclusion. The Temple is where God dwells.

When Jesus walks down from the mountain, like Moses, He is brining the wisdom of God with Him. St. Matthew has a little different telling of this Gospel story. For one, Matthew recalls different beatitudes and Matthew recalls Jesus giving the Sermon on the Mount ON the mount. That doesn’t mean that the stories are wrong or faulty - it means that Jesus did and said a whole lot more than the bible recalls and that the authors of the Gospels chose specific moments and aspects of the sermons that they wanted to emphasize based on the audience for whom they wrote their Gospels.

Here, St. Luke wants us to be very aware that Jesus is not speaking about a bunch of spiritual ideas - but He’s being very practical. Whereas St. Matthew emphasizes the spiritual aspects of this sermon, St. Luke asks us to think about poverty and hunger and sadness and reputation. Specifically, Jesus is about to send His apostles out on mission and they’re going to be poor and hungry and rejected. This is a weird kind of pep talk for them.

For us, who are not apostles, there’s meaning as well, but it’s a little different. Given these thoughts, what spiritual wisdom can you gather from a good reading of today’s Gospel?

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

This weekend, once again, we’ll have Benediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament immediately after Mass. The ritual is simple and beautiful. Jesus - who is consecrated at Mass - will be placed in the Monstrance and we’ll sing a hymn of adoration, the O Salutaris. The text is:

_O, Saving Victim, Who expands the door of heaven, Hostile armies press, Give strength; bear aid._

_To the One and Triune Lord, May there be everlasting glory; may he who gives life without end to us give in our homeland._

Then, we have a moment of silence and an incensing and then we sing another hymn, this one the Tantum Ergo. The text is:

_Hence so great a Sacrament Let us venerate with heads bowed And let the old practice Give way to the new rite; Let faith provide a supplement For the failure of the senses._

_To the Begetter and the Begotten, Be praise and jubilation, Hail, honor, virtue also, And blessing too: To the One proceeding from Both Let there be equal praise._

Then, the blessing with the Most Blessed Sacrament follows and the so-called Divine Praises are added as a devotion. They are thirteen antiphon of praise for God & His Church.

The traditional English translation is:

_Blessed be God.  Blessed be His Holy Name.  Blessed be Jesus Christ, true God and true Man.  Blessed be the Name of Jesus. Blessed be His Most Sacred Heart. Blessed be His Most Precious Blood. Blessed be Jesus in the Most Holy Sacrament of the Altar. Blessed be the Holy Spirit, the Paraclete. Blessed be the great Mother of God, Mary most Holy. Blessed be her Holy and Immaculate Conception. Blessed be her Glorious Assumption. Blessed be the name of Mary, Virgin and Mother. Blessed be St. Joseph, her most chaste spouse. Blessed be God in His Angels and in His Saints._

This traditional ritual is formally called the “Rite for Exposition and Benediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament of the Holy Eucharist.”

It’s sadly uncommon in the modern Church and yet where it is more commonly celebrated - especially as part of a longer time of prayer, like a holy hour - the Church is healthier. The more we devote ourselves to the reality of Jesus present among us in the tabernacle, the most our faith makes sense. This is why I hate people talking in the Church. The Church is Holy because Jesus is there and every syllable that we speak without due reverence to that damages our own realization and belief and it endangers the belief of others. Our faith depends on Jesus present in the Holy Eucharist and the growth of our faith - in ourselves and beyond - depends on it too.

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

- Feb 17 Sunday Morning Catechism
- Feb 19 Pastoral Council Meeting – Parish Hall – following 5:30 p.m. Mass
- Feb 27 Wednesday Evening Catechism...Devotionals - The Rosary, Holy Water, Relics
- March 3 Potluck Brunch celebrating Mardi Gras following Mass - First Quarter Social

## For Your Information:

PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19,  at 6:00 p.m (after 5:30 p.m. Mass) in the Church Center.  All members are requested to make special effort to attend. Appointed members of the Council:  Josephine Hodge, Michael Lancaster, Ginny Marsh, Terry Murphy, Beth Sullivan and Blanche Wilks.  Appointed as Trustees by the Bishop are Brian Johnson and Dale Magoun. Appointed by the pastor to serve as Finance Council Chair is Darryl Ellerbee.  Additionally, serving on the Council in an ex-officio capacity as President of the Altar Society will be Cathy VanderVieren. Parishioners are encouraged to attend contribute to the discussions.

YOUTH MASS is being observed today and coffee, juice, and donuts will be served in the Church Center immediately following the 9:30 a.m. Mass.  Please join us!

2019 FLOWER CALENDAR is on the bulletin board at the entrance of church.  Please consider special events in your life or that of your family and consider putting flowers on the altar at least once this year for one of those events.  If each family put flowers just one week, we would have fresh flowers for the entire year. Just pencil your name or intention in on the calendar and the church office will call to remind you of the date.

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2018-19 \$1,917
- January Budget \$7,668
- January Income \$7,790
- January Expenses \$8,837
- February Budget \$7,668
- Collection February 9/10 \$1,822
- February Income to Date \$7,277

**Stewardship ** The words of the Psalmist echo the theme of all of today’s readings.  “Happy are they who hope in the Lord.” As good stewards, firmly grounded in that hope, may we bear fruit in due season--assisting the poor, feeding the hungry, and consoling the sorrowful whenever we have the chance.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Marie P. Michele/Finn
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tues 6:30p In memory of John Johnson/family
- Wed 5:30p In memory of Joe Scurria/Lancaster
- Thurs 9:00a In memory of May DiTommaso              Olive Branch
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Angela Lusk/Nettles
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Matt Farlow/Scott
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 2/16 5:30p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: L Bullard & C VanderVieren
- 2/17 9:30a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: Preston & Caroline \* EMHCs: K Collins & B Smith
- 2/23 5:30p
  _ Lector: P Gilfoil
  _ EMHCs: M Gilfoil & A Keene
- 2/24 9:30a
  _ Servers: A Collins & M Wood
  _ Lector: B Sullivan \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 3/2 5:30p
  _ Lector: MA Gilfoil
  _ EMHCs: A Farlow & L Bullard
- 3/3 9:30a
  _ Servers: EL & C Marsh
  _ Lector: K Collins \* EMHCs: K Collins & B Smith

---

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop David Talley and Bishop-Emeritus Ronald Herzog, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal, Geneva Russell
Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Tommy and Gail Byrd, Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Kay Collins, Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, JoAnn Phillips Finn (Hodge), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Kathleen Oliver, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
