---
title: The Sixth Sunday of Easter
date: "2019-05-26T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-05-26/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-white.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

“Jesus said to his disciples: "Whoever loves me will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our dwelling with him.”
The modern refrain is “only God can judge me.” Many - even many higher ups in the Church - echo this wrong thinking with variations of the error like “who am I to judge?” or “judge not, lest you be judged.”

Of course, we’re not judging souls, Jesus taught us right and wrong. Remember it was Satan in the Garden of Eden who first played word games like this. The teachings of Jesus are not word games… They are salvific. They set souls free. They are spirit and life. And they are not optional for those interested in Heaven.
The Gospel today says it clearly - love equals obedience. Love isn’t emotion. It’s not puppy-dog eyes. It’s not whatever I want it to be. Love of God is obedience to the teachings of Jesus.

That happens in parts. First, love begins with trust that Jesus is the real deal (AKA “Faith”) and that His teaching will do what He promises  (AKA “Hope”). Then, love is prioritizing both the Lord, Himself, and His will for me over and above my own reason, my own passion and my own ambition.

If we love, then we believe in Jesus and we trust in Him to know and to want what’s best for us even when we think We might know better.

Love isn’t blind obedience, but neither must obedience be blind. I can do what I’m told to do without being an idiot. I can understand something fully and still take my instructions from someone else. I can even take the long way to accomplish something just because I love the person who’s asking me to… Love and obedience aren’t opposed. In fact, when they’re united, you end up with something truly special.

The Lord’s commands are not impersonal and archaic any more than a car company’s instruction to fill the tires to 35 psi rather than 45 psi is. In fact, the Lord knows us far better than Goodyear knows their product. God loves us more, too. His teaching is a gift, just as directions from a local are a gift. The Lord’s commands are freeing and He wants that for us.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

### Mass Times CHANGE

The time has come. Fr. Peter K will be leaving on a jet plane just prior to June 1. That means that beginning NEXT WEEKEND, I’ll be offering all the Masses at both of his Churches and here in Tallulah. The drive times are significant and I’ll be doing this for four months. So, a few notes:

####Saturdays
Waterproof - 4p St. Edward - 6p

####Sundays
St. Edward - 9a St. Joseph - 11:15a

Also, there won’t be any real time for me to visit beyond a handshake after Mass on Sundays. If you have something to discuss with me, please contact me via email or phone and we’ll set up an appointment of some sort. That also means no religious education, although we will continue our schedule of parish socials, I just won’t be able to attend.

For the months of Jun, Jul, Aug and Sept, I’ll be quite exhausted on the weekends. I won’t be much good for anything Saturday morning or Sunday evening. But, I will be hungry and bored during the week and looking for free food! So if you’ve got a place at the supper table Tuesday or Wednesday or Thursday, let’s put something on the calendar! Just please call me a day or two in advance so I can get my schedule in order. (I’m not really hungry, you see - I love to cook! I’m just employing Catholic guilt - don’t tell anyone.)

### What if…

There used to be a house across the street from the Church. It was moved to Tensas parish and now the lot across the street may be for sale…

I’ve been in consultation for several months with the parish council about what we should do about that - if anything.

Several folks are of the opinion that the lot is good to get, even if we don’t have any plans to use it for anything.

Obviously, the big question is “how much?” The next question is “what do we do with it?”

Next weekend, after both Masses (Sat, Jun 1, 6p and Sun, Jun 2, 9a) all are invited and encouraged to attend town-hall meetings in the parish hall. Mr. Darryl Elerbee will preside. We’ve got some hard numbers we want to look at and some thoughts and ideas about what could be.

We want people to come with opinions. We want people to feel very free to share your mind about the Church and the coming years. This isn’t the time for bashfulness. If you’re in agreement or not, we want people to speak up.

Now, if you’re not a group talker, that’s fine. You can email me or you can call me or you can text me. My email is frhumphries@gmail.com. My mobile number is (318) 542-3316.

This could be a big deal for our parish. It could be an important sign of life. It could be a misstep. It could be a lot of things and we want a lot of voices to talk it out. PLEASE, please, please consider coming.

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* June 1-2 Mass times change for the next four (4) months...Saturday 6 p.m. and Sunday 9 a.m
* June 1-2 Town Hall Meetings following each Mass this weekend to discuss property acquisition (see Father’s article above)
* June 23 Second Quarter Potluck Social following 9:30 a.m. Mass in Church Hall.  Plan to attend

## For Your Information:

As mentioned, from June through September, Fr. Peter K will be out of the country and Fr. Ryan will have all the Masses at both of his Churches as well as here at St. Edward. That schedule will be:

> Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
> Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
> Sun. 9am - Tallulah
> Sun. 11:15am - St. Joseph

TOWN HALL MEETINGS…next weekend, June 1 & 2 … please pay close attention to “Thoughts from Fr. Ryan” and allow yourself time to remain after Mass for our Town Hall meetings as your opinion is valued and needed!

ALTAR CANDLES… Anyone wishing to provide candles for the altar in honor of their loved one or in prayer for some intention may do so simply by asking. A small donation is recommended, but not required. A list of dates is in the sacristy and a date can be reserved up to one year in advance.

CATHOLIC COMMUNICATION CAMPAIGN--EVANGELIZATION THROUGH THE MEDIA IN THE DIOCESE OF ALEXANDRIA...next weekend, June 1 & 2, our second collection will go to help connect people around the world with Christ and for us will have the special emphasis on our own diocese’s communication department.

SECOND QUARTER POTLUCK SOCIAL … June 23 following 9:30 a.m. Mass.  Mark your calendar and plan to attend.  
 Second Quarter (April, May, June) Social Committee - Pat and Libby Bullard, Elizabeth Crothers, Angel Farlow, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, MaryAnne Gilfoil, Terry and Andy Hall, Isabell Hernandez, Ann Keene, Andy Nguyen, Bobby Reynolds, Jim and Frances Roemer, Joe Storey, Delia Trichell, and Cathy VanderVieren

MEMORIAL DAY … celebrated the last Monday in the month of May, is set aside to remember the sacrifices of our men and women of the military who gave the ultimate sacrifice of their life so that we have the freedom to worship as we chose!

> As a helpful reminder:
>
> > _Armed Forces Day_ (3rd Saturday of May) is for those who currently wear the uniform.
> > _Veterans’ Day_ (Nov 11) is for those who used to wear the uniform.
> > _Memorial Day_ (Last Monday of May) is for those who never made it out of uniform.

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2018-19 \$1,917
- April Budget \$7,668
- April Income \$9,832
- April Expenses \$7,671
- May Budget \$7,668
- Collection May 11/12 \$1,247
- May Income to Date \$5,687

**Stewardship ** “Today’s reading from Revelation offers a vision of the City of God, the new Jerusalem.  “But,” the bishops’ pastoral on stewardship reminds us, “that ‘life to come’ is in continuity with this present life through the human goods, the worthy human purposes, which people foster now.”
Next weekend….special collection to support Catholic Communication Campaign --Evangelization through the Media in the Diocese of Alexandria.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of John and Marie Johnson/family
- Sun 9:30a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tues NO MASS
- Wed        NO MASS
- Thurs 9:00a In memory of Jason Jumonville (death)/family                          Legacy Nursing Home
- Fri 5:30p In memory of George and Margaret Magoun/family
- Sat 6:00p In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning in memory of Becky Lancaster

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 5/25 5:30p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: C VanderVieren & L Bullard
- 5/26 9:30a
  _ Servers: P Collins/M Wood
  _ Lector: A Oliver \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
- 6/1 6:00p
  _ Lector: C VanderVieren
  _ EMHCs: P & B Wilks
- 6/2 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Sullivan & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: A Keene \* EMHCs: B Smith & Volunteer
- 6/8 6:00p
  _ Lector: L Bullard
  _ EMHCs: A Farlow & MA Gilfoil
- 6/9 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Marsh & C Wood
  _ Lector: B Sullivan \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Olivia Clare Copes (May 29, 2010), Anna Ginn (May 29), Mary Katherine Marsh (May 29, 2011)
**Happy Anniversary** Betty and Kenny Smith (June 1)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal, Geneva Russell

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Kay Collins, Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Kathleen Oliver, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
