---
title: The 14th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2019-07-13T07:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2019-07-07/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"

category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“The harvest is abundant but the laborers are few, so ask the master of the harvest to send out laborers for his harvest."_

Most of the time, this passage is associated with men considering becoming priests… There’s work to do and so ask God to send more people to do it… But there’s an important component of evangelization there for every single one of us. All of us are called to know, love and serve God. All of us are called to be laborers for the Lord. So why do we need the Lord to call out more? Mostly because so many people aren’t listening!

Whenever people say we have a lack of priests, I always think about the fact that we have a lack of good plumbers and A\C companies… It’s not that there’s some magic limitation upon becoming a plumber or A\C guy, it’s that people have decided they don’t want to do that kind of work. And it doesn’t matter that those jobs pay really well and that there is a lot of opportunity to work and to get ahead in those jobs. Too many people have simply convinced themselves that they are either too good for that work or that they can do better.

The same is true for the priesthood. God is calling. He’s calling and calling. But too many people have simply decided that they can do better for themselves. Of course, there are other reasons not to become a priest just as there are other reasons not to become a plumber or a CPA… But all too often, people make these decisions based on something other than logic.

Does that extend to serving God in general? Maybe… If God says “go over and tell that coworker about your faith,” will you go? Why? If God says “fast from food today and I will send special blessing upon that person there,” will we obey? Why? If God says “ask Father if you can help him with religious education or the youth,” will you? If God says “join the choir or read at Mass or step up your prayer,” will you and why?

As the Scripture says, the harvest is abundant, there’s grace and blessing to be had! There are miracles to be had! But even so, “the laborers are few.” And so we ask the Lord to send more laborers, but when we do so, we risk hearing the Lord direct us to be one of those laborers. It’s not just the priests and nuns who are bound to serve the Lord, it’s all of us - every one.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

> O beautiful for spacious skies,
>  For amber waves of grain,
>  For purple mountain majesties
>  Above the fruited plain!
>  America! America!
>  God shed His grace on thee
>  And crown thy good with brotherhood
>  From sea to shining sea!

> O beautiful for pilgrim feet,
>  Whose stern, impassioned stress
>  A thoroughfare for freedom beat
>  Across the wilderness!
>  America! America!
>  God mend thine every flaw,
>  Confirm thy soul in self-control,
>  Thy liberty in law!

> O beautiful for heroes proved
>  In liberating strife,
>  Who more than self their country loved
>  And mercy more than life!
>  America! America!
>  May God thy gold refine,
>  Till all success be nobleness,
>  And every gain divine!

> O beautiful for patriot dream
>  That sees beyond the years
>  Thine alabaster cities gleam
>  Undimmed by human tears!
>  America! America!
>  God shed His grace on thee
>  And crown thy good with brotherhood
>  From sea to shining sea!

America the Beautiful was written by  Katharine Lee Bates in the late 1890s after a trip to Pike’s Peak. The music was written by Samual Ward for another poem called “O Mother, Dear Jerusalem” ten years earlier. They were put together in 1910.

The poem is all about virtue. It’s about what made the American fable possible. Virtues like fraternity (v1), self-control (v2), humility (v2), sacrifice (v3) and hope (v4) were the driving force in the age of expansion once the British had been cast out and before the greed of the rich in the North and the South created the War Between the States.

History shows us a well-established cycle of hardships which foster virtue in people who in turn create virtuous and prosperous societies which then foster laziness and unvirtuous people who turn society from virtue to vice which then fosters more vicious people under whom society collapses and creates new hardships. Given enough time, societies will cycle like this over and over again. It happened in Greece and Rome and Japan and China and Europe and now, here in the US, we find ourselves surrounded by the unvirtuous leadership which threatens our very society. Eventually, our society will collapse, but that doesn’t have to happen on our watch. And so the challenge is laid before every generation to fight against the temptation to vice and to fight for a virtuous and healthy society.

The US isn’t immune to the great cycle of history, but if we cling to the virtues in America the Beautiful, we may well short circuit the worst parts of the cycle in which we find ourselves.

---

## Calendar of Events

- _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
- _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass_
- _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* July 16 Pastoral Council meeting.  Please mark your calendar to attend if you are a member.
* July 24 Sabbatical Trip report by Father Ryan following 5:30 p.m. Mass
* July 27 Seminarian Barbecue - St Mary Catholic Church - Winnsboro.  See notes elsewhere

## For Your Information:

Through September, our schedule will be:

- Sat. 4pm - Waterproof
- Sat. 6pm - Tallulah
- Sun. 9am - Tallulah
- Sun. 11:00am - St. Joseph

SABBATICAL TRIP - PART TWO… Father Ryan will present the second and final part of pictures and narrative of his trip last Fall.  It appears that the best Wednesday in July is the 24th. This will be about 6 p.m. in the Church Hall (following 5:30 p.m. Mass).

SEMINARIANS BARBECUE … is scheduled for Saturday, July 27, at St Mary Catholic Church in Winnsboro.  Flyers can be found at the entrance to church. Please advise our church office or Father Ryan if you can participate.

PROTECTING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go on line regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.
_ “Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse. 
_ “Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide” 
The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential.

---

## Our Return to the Lord

- Weekly Budget FY 2018-19 \$1,917
- May Budget \$7,668
- May Income \$6,837
- May Expenses \$7,798
- June Budget \$9,585
- Collection June 29/30 \$1,820
- June Income to Date \$7,738

**Stewardship ** “The harvest is rich”, Jesus tells the seventy-two in today’s Gospel, “but the workers are few.”  The situation is the same today. How can I help with God’s harvest?  Am I called into the field?  Am I one who could provide food or shelter or wages to those who toil in the fields of the Lord?

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 6:00p In memory of Paul VanderVieren (for birth anniversary on July 7/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
- Mon NO MASS
- Tue 5:30p In memory of Gus Gremshell
- Wed 5:30p       In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/Weaver
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Joe Scurria/Meadows                                        Legacy Nursing Home
- Fri 5:30p For Magoun’s Special Intention on 13th
- Sat 6:00p In memory of Jack Ellerbee/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

- 7/6 6:00p
  _ Lector: A Farlow
  _ EMHCs: P & B Wilks
- 7/7 9:00a
  _ Servers: M Wood & Volunteer
  _ Lector: D Ellerbee \* EMHCs: Volunteers
- 7/13 6:00p
  _ Lector: MA Gilfoil
  _ EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
- 7/14 9:00a
  _ Servers: W Sullivan & H Ellerbee
  _ Lector: B Sullivan \* EMHCs: B Smith and K Collins
- 7/20 6:00p
  _ Lector: M Rome
  _ EMHCs: A Farlow & L Magoun
- 7/21 9:00a
  _ Servers: C Marsh & C Wood
  _ Lector: C Marsh & W Sullivan \* EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Josephine Hodge (July 7), Chip Sullivan (July 11), Aidan Collins (July 12)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, Josephine Hodge, Bill Kennedy, Dale & Louise Magoun, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome and Delia Trichell

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Sue Scurria, Jim Farrell of Vicksburg, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal, Geneva Russell

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Margaret Baker (Magoun), Marie Farlow Bellard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jackie Daniels (Lancaster), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carole Ducote (Lancaster), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Melissa Grady (D Wood), Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Jeannie Kivett, Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Mathieu family in Delhi (Wilks), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Thomas Joseph O’Dowd (Army Ranger/Italy/M Scurria O’Dowd), Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Yvonne Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Spencer and Mary Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Lori Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.

> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
