---
title: The Second Sunday of Advent
date: "2020-12-06T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-12-06/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-violet.jpg"
description: "As we continue to wait on the Lord in this Season of Advent, the Scriptures call our attention to St. John the Baptist, precursor of the Lord."
tags:
  - "Advent"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*“Comfort, give comfort to my people, says your God.”*

Comfort in human history has been relatively rare. Most people in human history have lived day-to-day, hand-to-mouth, and without any kind of safety net or social backup structure. And the few people who appear in the Bible who lead lives of comfort and security do not get a big thumbs up from God or their fellow man. The rich are in spiritual peril and are less likely to enter eternal life than a camel is to pass through the eye of a needle. Comfort is meant to be dosed out by the Lord and not to be wallowed in for too long. Is it any wonder, then, that as a society grows wealthier and more comfortable, their morals tend to decline and their society as a whole begins to fail…? In a word, excess comfort is dangerous. 

The comfort the world offers us in the form of ample food and shelter and in the form of freedom from unpleasantness and strife is only a cheap imitation of the comfort the Lord offers us in the spiritual life. Our worldly comfort is all about circumstances… All it takes a little pandemic and, by the latest statistics, nearly 25% of us develop moderate or severe ASD (Acute Stress Disorder). All it takes is the loss of income or social status and our comfortable circumstances go away. The comfort the Lord offers, in contrast, is internal and doesn’t depend on circumstance at all. The knowledge that God intends to use all things for the good of those who love Him has given a fearlessness and a freedom to many people in this time of pandemic. Many people have faced their mortality and found joy in the confrontation.

For most people in human history, worldly comforts just weren’t possible and that remains true of our day and age. While almost all 380 million Americans live in virtual luxury alongside the massive wealth of Europe, Australia and the larger cities of the world, fully half of the world’s population live on less than \$2 per day. Half the world lives in real poverty and yet, by most measures, they experience greater happiness and self-actualization than we wealthy few… The little comfort they have is of the kind the Lord offers us today, not a comfort of circumstance, but a comfort of knowing the love and peace of Our Lord Jesus Christ. 


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


When the traditional Roman Missal, in use from the 4th century, was replaced by the new Roman Missal in the 1960s, the text prescribed eight specific scriptural readings proper to each Sunday Mass and seven to each daily Mass.

The Mass would begin with a single short sentence (“The Introit”) which would set the tone for the Mass. Next Sunday, for example, the prescribed Introit is *“Rejoice, again I say rejoice.”*

After the Introit, the traditional long reading is to be taken from either the Old Testament or the book of Revelation. The so-called Responsorial Psalm is chosen specifically to “respond” to this longer reading and, usually, to contextualize it in a bit of a prayer. 

The reading from the New Testament follows that and is, itself, followed by the Gospel Acclamation, another single short sentence meant to set the tone for the reading from one of the Gospels. 

After the Liturgy of the Word, two more “antiphons” are prescribed for the Offertory and Holy Communion respectively, and just like the Introit and Gospel Acclamation, these short, punchy sentences are meant to establish context and to give us a sense of engagement with parts of the Mass which otherwise do not change. 

Despite these musical innovations and the enthusiasm with which they were put forward by the Italian priests who implemented the grand and radical changes following Vatican II, half of these scriptural verses are usually replaced entirely by hymnody. There’s an upside to that! Hymnody is incredibly powerful and speaks to the heart in a way that recitation never can. BUT, the hymnody that we have in the US is almost entirely devoid of real scriptural depth. Most of it either comes from the Methodist tradition of the 17th and 18th century and uses scripture only in allusion. The rest comes from the folk hymnody era of the 1960s and 70s and prioritizes lyricality and musicality over content. As such, most of the scripture prescribed for us by the Church is just set aside. 

Thankfully, it’s not overly difficult to make some minor course corrections here at St. Edward. Our devoted cantor has agreed to continue singing our opening hymn as a prelude and to chant the Introit afterward. So as not to change his musical load too much, we’ll recite the psalm. At some point, I’d like to find a way to incorporate the Offertory and Communion antiphons as well. But for now, the Church makes it clear that the most important of the antiphons is the Introit and so I’m very pleased to be able to bring that scripture back to a place of honor and precedence. 

I also want to take a moment to say thank you to Michael Lancaster who has single-handedly been so faithful to our music. We’ve had a few brave, lone souls who have helped on and off, but he has been a stalwart and a rock for us. If anyone is willing to be of assistance to him or to function as a fill-in when he’s away, please talk to him directly or to me. I’m not asking for performers, I’m asking for people who have turned to the Lord and said to Him “Lord, whatever you ask of me, I will do!” If all of us said that prayer, I think the Lord would provide beyond our expectations!


---

## Upcoming Events

* Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
* Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass *unless otherwise indicated*
* Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p *unless otherwise indicated*

-
*  Dec 14/15	Advent Mission
* Dec 20	Birthday Party for Jesus following 9 a.m. Mass
* Dec 24/25	Christmas Eve Mass at 6 p.m. and Christmas Day Mass at 9 a.m.
* Jan 2 		“Burning of the Greens” following 5:30 p.m. Mass.  More info to follow….


## For Your Information:

SUNDAY MORNING CATECHISM… Sunday Morning Catechism along with Coffee and Donuts after the 9 a.m Mass. Workbooks for all ages are available in the Hall, free of charge, to anyone who needs one throughout the year. Parents are strongly encouraged to attend these presentations as they will help you, as your child’s teacher, teach your children and, hopefully, increase your own knowledge of our Faith.

ROSARY GROUP … a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary.  Everyone is invited to join with the group.  If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403

ANGEL TREE … what an amazing group of people we have….EVERY ONE of our Angels was taken from the tree in the Church Hall.  If you had every intention of being a part of the Angel Tree project but did not get a name of someone to obtain a gift for, you can feel free to make a monetary donation to help with the cost of Food Baskets that will be given.  Dana Dukes is giving leadership to our Angel Tree project this year.  If you have questions, please contact her or the church office.

ADVENT MISSION… On Monday and Tuesday, December 14 and 15th, Mr. Roger Christopher, retired US Armed Forces and Candidate for Permanent Deacon for our diocese will be with us to speak specifically about the Scripture in our Faith. Roger is a remarkable guy who has found a profound love for the Bible in the last few years and has been studying voraciously just how grounded in Scripture the teachings of the Church are! He is enthusiastic to share his passion and his insights. I hope you’ll join us next Monday and Tuesday at 6p in the Hall for Roger’s presentations. Fr. Ryan will offer Mass at 5:30p in the Church on those days to assist our spiritual reception of our Advent Mission. Please plan to attend!!

BIRTHDAY PARTY FOR JESUS…will be on Sunday, December 20, following 9:30 a.m. Mass and all are invited to join the children for this festive event.  Kendra Collins will be giving leadership to this event. If you would like to assist, please contact Kendra or Father Ryan.

CHRISTMAS EVE AND DAY MASS SCHEDULE...Christmas Eve Mass will be celebrated at 6 p.m. as Father Ryan will need time to return from Delhi where he will have celebrated Mass at St. Theresa earlier in the afternoon.  Christmas Day Mass will be celebrated at 9 a.m. 

FLOWERS FOR CHRISTMAS...envelopes can be found at the entrance of Church.  Please indicate if you have a Special Intention, In Honor, In Memory.  Envelopes can be returned in the collection basket.


---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Pat Bullard/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
* Mon		No Mass
* Tue	9:00a	In memory of Rosa Gremshell
* Wed	9:00a	In memory of Paul Voran/Fr Ryan
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of Dale Magoun/family
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Josephine Hodge/G Cox
* Sat	9:00a	Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Louise and Joseph Testa (anni)/Magoun
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

| Date | Servers | Lector(s) |
| :--: | :--: | :--: || 1918 | some kids|
| 12/5 5:30p | None Scheduled | L Bullard |
| 12/6 9:00a | Walker, Marsh, and Cooper | A Oliver |
| 12/12 5:30p | None Scheduled | C VanderVieren |
| 12/13 9:00a | Chandler, Mary Katherine, Carter | D Ellerbee |
| 12/19 5:30p | None Scheduled | A Farlow |
| 12/20 9:00a | Preston, Marsh, and Evelyn | Youth |



---



## Our Return to the Lord

| | |
| :--- | ---: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 | $ 2,111 |
| Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 | $ 2,111 |
| October Budget | $ 8,444 |
| October Income | $ 8,181 |
| October Expenses | $ 8,840 |
| November Budget | $10,555 |
| November 29/30 collection  | $  1,453 |
| November income to Date | $  9,828 |

--- 

**Stewardship** John the Baptist’s call to repentance is echoed in the U.S. Bishops pastoral letter on stewardship “Christians must beg God for the grace of conversion, the grace to know who they are, to whom they belong, how they are to live--the grace to repent and change and grow, the grace to become good disciples and stewards.”

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Nick and Chris Hall (Dec 7), Norman Ernst (Dec 12), Katherine Ernst Bedgood (Dec 14), Madeline Oliver (Dec 14)

**Happy Anniversary** Mary Kathryn and Nap Book (Dec 14)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Marie and Norman Ernst, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Stella & Fernando Calvo (Keene), Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Karen and Rod Cobb, Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Tommy Dunning, Eli Edgecomb(Gilfoil), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Pops Neumann, Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas , Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones. 
 
*Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed.*
