---
title: The Nineteenth Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2020-08-09T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-08-09/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: "The Gospel image of Jesus walking on water has endured and remains one of the most widely known of all the images of Jesus in the Gospels. Perhaps because of the genuine relatability of the scene, today's Gospel is among the most beloved and effective stories in the entire Bible."
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

*“Take courage, it is I; do not be afraid.”*

The Jewish notion of fear is nothing like our modern psychologically-driven understanding with its mass of phobias and clinical anxieties and other conditions. For the Jews, fear was good, normal, and healthy. They lived in a desert where one bad harvest would eclipse our “panic” over COVID-19. Traveling meant the risk of brigands and wild animals. There was also the constant threat of the Babylonian Empire and, later, the Persian Empire both of which were famous for horrific tortures and sudden invasions. 

Even beyond the threats on their lives, the very worship of God was grounded in “Fear of the Lord.” Proverbs 9 calls Fear of the Lord the “beginning of Wisdom.” And contrary to modern preachers trying to make it ok to our ears, Fear of the Lord meant fear. When Moses wanted to look upon the Lord’s face, God told him that to do so would bring instant death. The Jews executed sinners regularly by stoning them to death. When the Lord got angry with the ancient world, He flooded it and killed all but Noah’s family. The enemies of the chosen people had been killed and the Jews were living in those same cities. Obedience to the Lord was an act of piety to be sure, but it was as much the stick as it was the carrot.

That’s why His kindness and His calls that the disciples not fear Him was one of the most astounding aspects of Jesus and His teaching. He didn’t deny that “Fear of the Lord is the beginning of Wisdom.” Rather, He said that like blood sacrifice in the temple, God was more pleased with something else. Rather than the blood of goats, God prefers a contrite heart. Rather than obedience because of fear, the Lord prefers love chosen in freedom. 

Even today, there is a place in the spiritual life for fear. Mostly, that place is at the beginning of the spiritual life. We fear hell and so we repent of our sins. As we grow in the knowledge and love of God, more “perfect love casts out fear” (1 Jn4:8). As with all the teachings of Jesus which seem to contradict the Old Testament, we have to read carefully lest we think that God could contradict Himself. 2 Timothy 2 reminds us though that "God cannot be unfaithful to Himself.”


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

School in the time of COVID… It makes me think of a wonderful little Spanish novel which is called in English “Love in the Time of Cholera.” The book is a lovely romantic tale set in Columbia. It’s good practice for folks learning Spanish. 

I don’t know what to make exactly of school in the time of COVID, but Tallulah Academy has a challenging year ahead and all of us would do well to pray for the students, teachers and, especially, the administrators who have to navigate the stormy waters of this thoroughly political pandemic. 

It’s tempting - for me and for all of us, I expect - to speak up and share our thoughts on this moment. Is it a pandemic or just a bad flu? Is it dangerous for our kids to go back to school? If it’s dangerous, who is it dangerous for - the kids themselves or just their older relatives? Are masks necessary? Helpful? What about this cocktail of quinine and Azithromycin? And what about this fabled vaccine that may or may not be mandatory? Is it selfish to disagree with the CDC or WHO? Haven’t they both been very publicly discredited? Hasn’t Fauchi been shown to be a crisis profiteer? 

To me the only question to which we have a certain answer is that the media and many of the people in our government - national and local - are lying about what they know for sure and what they want us to believe on any given day. So where does that leave us? I feel a bit like a kid in the backseat of the car who has just been told by dad not to ask “are we there yet” again unless I want my behind spanked. Ok... I’ll just sit here.

As Christians, we find ourselves powerless a lot. We don’t have control over most aspects of our lives and even those things that we think we control can prove to be less under control than we thought. Our response is very much what happens in the Gospel today. Peter feels helpless and he says to Jesus “If you call me, I’ll walk on the water.” Sometimes Jesus invites us to get involved and sometimes He doesn’t. Sometimes our involvement goes awry. As soon as Peter takes his eyes off of Jesus, He sinks. I expect we all know that feeling. 

In this current situation, we simply can’t allow ourselves to cower in fear over what might be. This is a blessed moment to face our own anxieties about death and suffering and to confront those fears. Yes, we should take precautions against danger. We should wear our seat belts in the car and, within the limits of reason, we should wear our masks. We don’t do these things as an act of fear, but as an act of prudence and humility. As Christians, we face death head on. We may think that a thousand years separates us from the martyrs of old, but more martyrs have been made in the past 100 years than in the previous 19 centuries combined! Islam and China are martyring Christians right now in staggering numbers. Antifa is burning Bibles and politicians are working to outlaw free speech and free exercise of religion. We don’t know what lies ahead. Our Lady promised us victory at Fatima, but She didn’t give us a time-table. This disease is a blessed moment for us - young and old, school age and not - to face our anxieties and trust God! 


---

## Notes On Events in the Church

* Masks and gloves are recommended. All are asked to observe the precepts of social distancing. 
* Holy Communion is available only under the single species of the Sacred Host.
* THANK YOU for your patience with us and for your cooperation!

## For Your Information:

SUNDAY MORNING CATECHISM RESUMES… Sunday Morning Catechism along with Coffee and Donuts will resume on Sunday, August 23 after the 9 a.m. Mass. As has become our program, Fr. Ryan will present a short teaching using the projector which is correlated to a specific chapter in our workbooks. Workbooks for all ages will be available free of charge to anyone who needs one in the hall throughout the year. Parents are strongly encouraged to attend these presentations as they will help you teach your own children and, hopefully, increase your own knowledge and understanding of our Faith.

THE FEAST OF THE ASSUMPTION OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN MARY is celebrated on the 15th of August. When this feast falls on a Saturday or a Monday it is NOT a Holy Day of Obligation. Our Mass on the Saturday, August 15 will be the Mass of the Blessed Virgin Mary and our Mass on Sunday, August 16 will be the Mass of the 20th Sunday in Ordinary Time. Of course, at this odd moment in our history, we are not obligated to attend Mass due to pandemic. Still, all of us should be evaluating our own circumstances and considering if we can safely attend Holy Mass which is just as essential for our spiritual lives as ever. Without Holy Mass and with the Holy Eucharist - obligation or no - we cannot hope to grow in holiness or in the knowledge and love of God! Livestream Masses are a stopgap, but we should all be making every effort within reason to be at Sunday Mass.

PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, AUGUST 18,  at 6:00 p.m in the Church Center.  All members are requested to make a special effort to attend.  Parishioners are encouraged to attend and contribute to the discussions. 

EMPOWERING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go online regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.

* “Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse. 
* “Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide”

The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential.


---

## Our Return to the Lord

* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* July Budget $8,444
* July Income $11,621
* June Expenses $8,705
* August Budget $10,555
* August 1/2 Collection $2,220
* August income to Date $2,220

**Stewardship** Elijah recognized the voice of God not in the strong and heavy wind, not in the earthquake, and not in the fire, but in a tiny whispering sound.  May we find enough quiet in our clamorous world to hear His voice and discern what He is calling us to do and be. 

**SPECIAL COLLECTION** this weekend, August 8/9 … for the Church in Africa.  Although the Church is growing, many still lack access to basic resources and pastoral care.  This collection supports pastoral projects that foster lasting peace and reconciliation in a continent often marked by division and tension.


---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Donald Trichell/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
* Mon		NO MASS 
* Tue	9:00a	In memory of Marie Michelle/C Phillips
* Wed	9.00a	In memory of George Magoun (death anni)/Magoun
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of Gus Gremshell
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Becky Lancaster/family
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Wayne Magoun/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning in memory of Josephine Hodge by the Rome family

## Lectors at Holy Mass

* 8/8 5:30p
	* M  Rome
* 8/9 9:00a
	* S Ernst
* 8/15 5:30p
	* L Bullard
* 8/16 9:00a
	* J Howington
* 8/22 5:30p
	* C VanderVieren
* 8/23 9:00a
	* A Oliver

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Teri Wilson (Aug 17)

**Happy Anniversary** Shannon and Bart Wood (Aug. 15)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond, Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Libby Bullard, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, Terri Wilson, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil),  Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Kim Dorbeck (Keene), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Bo Holloway, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), James H. Lossin (Keene),  Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas , Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Todd Windham

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.  

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
