---
title: The Thirty-Second Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2020-11-08T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-11-08/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: "As the last few Sundays of Ordinary Time draw to an end, the Gospel readings increasingly call our attention to the second coming of Jesus and the end of the world as we know it. The call, though, is always both a warning and an encouragement."
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*“At midnight, there was a cry, ‘Behold, the bridegroom! Come out to meet him!’”*

The rural Hispanic and African peoples tend to think of time the same way that the Biblical Hebrews did. Masses are typically scheduled for “midmorning.” The Wedding is set for “Tuesday.” Even within the past fifty years, some Catholics in this Diocese didn’t have a fixed time for Sunday Mass, it was just about twenty minutes after Father rang the Church bells. The modern mindset of scheduling life to the minute and to the second just didn’t exist in a world without clocks or watches. Neither did the idea that feasting should be limited to just a few hours on one day. A feast in the ancient world and a party in rural Mexico today can go on for days. Folks may sleep over or travel back and forth, but the sense of time isn’t predictable. The action follows the opportunity and the group rather than the individual opts to stop or go on.

In our spiritual lives, the modern idea is driven by self-determinism. We think of ourselves as independent and capable. We are strong, smart, and resourceful and we see that a sign of maturity and virtue! The pandemic has forced us to call into question much of this way of thinking. Living life second-by-second isn’t as necessary when most of my life is lived at home rather than in the office. It’s hard to feel strong and independent with the looming spectre of an illness that we can’t fight. It’s almost comic to bring an end to a good conversation or even a chat with a friend if the next thing on my agenda is just another episode of television.

In many ways, the lockdown of 2020 forced us to peer inside the way people lived for most of human history. It took us away from agendas and schedules and rushing around from one place to another and left us to become comfortable with just sitting around the house. 

It may well be that there’s more virtue in that that our type-A culture would lead us to believe. It may well be that a life led rushing from one event to another is in fact less fulfilling, less joyful, less valuable for society and less “human” as a life led simply waiting for the bridegroom to arrive. It’s not an accident that the life of monks and nuns is a life spent waiting on the Lord and it’s called the way of perfection.


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


The election has been center stage for a year and, sadly, Election Day didn’t bring an end to the tension, anxiety and national discord that has become the new normal in the past twelve or so.

Whatever the end result, our times have already called into question our faith in the news media to tell both sides of the story, our faith in the internet to ensure free speech, and most of the other core beliefs that we hold in the overall goodness of the American governmental structure to lean ultimately toward the good. And while having our faith in any worldly thing shaken is tough, it’s easy to see how the Lord can use that to draw us to Himself.

Whether we live in good times or in bad… Whether we live in times of health or times of pandemic… Whether we live comfortably in personal prosperity or in abject poverty, the Lord is still the central focus of our very being. And ANYthing that distracts us from that - even very, very good things - are dangers to our souls.
It’s not by accident that Jesus calls out wealth as the perhaps the single greatest threat to the spiritual life. It’s not because having money is bad. It’s because money buys false security. Living in good times gives us false security. When things go our way, we can easily forget how perilous our lives really are. 

As such, any and every wake up call that reminds us that God is God and I am not works to my good. The Lord can use any time that a part of my life lets me down to remind me of what matters and what doesn’t. 

As of the time I’m writing this article, the election for President has not been decided. Whatever does happen, I know my personal faith in our system of government is severely shaken. And thanks be to God for that!

While the greatest joys of our lives tend to come from those moments when everything is right, the most important moments of our lives aren’t really about the circumstances at all. Personal growth almost always comes from being lost or broken. This is why St. Paul preaches the Cross so vigorously and it’s why Jesus says that we can’t be saved unless we take up our cross and follow after Him.
Things may work the way that we want in this election and\or the next election and\or the election after that… But those decisions don’t really have all that much to do with you or I getting closer to Heaven. It’s not that they don’t matter! They matter profoundly!!! But after you and I cast our ballot, we have to turn to the Lord and say to Him, “Lord, I’ve done what I must, not please fulfill your promise to make this and all things work to the good of those who love You!” 
Whether you’re happy or sad or furious or  confident or anxious or none of the above, the Lord wants to use this moment to draw you nearer to His Sacred Heart, nearer to your own salvation, nearer to being His servant and nearer to the holiness that frees us from being thrashes around by the circumstances of our live. 

Let’s all pray for one another that God uses these moments to make us a little more like the saints He has called us to be!


---

## Upcoming Events

* Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
* Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass *unless otherwise indicated*
* Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p *unless otherwise indicated*

-
*  Nov 12	Town Hall meeting -- 6 p.m. -- Parish Hall to discuss Mausoleum possibilities
* Nov 17	Pastoral Council Meeting -- 6 p.m. Parish Hall
* Nov 22	Thanksgiving Celebration … Brunch following Sunday Mass


## For Your Information:

SUNDAY MORNING CATECHISM… Sunday Morning Catechism along with Coffee and Donuts after the 9 a.m Mass. Workbooks for all ages are available in the Hall, free of charge, to anyone who needs one throughout the year. Parents are strongly encouraged to attend these presentations as they will help you, as your child’s teacher, teach your children and, hopefully, increase your own knowledge of our Faith.

ANGEL TREE … beginning November 21, you will have the opportunity to select Angels that you may want to purchase gifts for during the Christmas season from the tree in the Church Hall.  Dana Dukes is giving leadership to our Angel Tree project this year.  If you have questions, please contact her or the church office.

ROSARY GROUP … a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary.  Everyone is invited to join with the group.  If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403

THANKSGIVING CELEBRATION POTLUCK BRUNCH… on Sunday, November 22, following Mass.  Mark your calendar and plan to join our faith family!  
  Host for the event is the Fourth Quarter (Oct, Nov, Dec) Social Committee- Skeeter and Blanche Wilks, and Louise Magoun chairs, Dorothy Dyer, Leslye Ellerbee, Monique Florence, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, Sherry Lynn and Timmy Harris, Michael Lancaster, Billy and Ginny Marsh, William and Sharyn Marsh, Hannah McCartney, Sug Regan, Robert Wood, Edward and Margaret Yerger

KEYPAD ENTRY for the Church. Now that the parish has a Shrine in Honor of St. Edward and one of his miraculous relics, Fr. Ryan wanted a way for people to be able to pray whenever they may want or need. This past week, he installed a keypad entry system for the side door of the Church. If you’d like to stop in and pray any time, just text or call Fr. Ryan for the code. While the code is not especially secret, we do want to provide some security for the Church and so we’re asking that the code not be given out to anyone who isn’t a regular Massgoer at St Edward except by Fr. Ryan. Thanks!

TOWN HALL MEETING TO DISCUSS MAUSOLEUM…. On Thursday, November 12, 2020 in Parish Hall at 6 p.m., all are invited to an information meeting about the next steps for our new property. Nothing is written in stone (no pun intended) just yet, but all are welcome to bring their thoughts, ideas and opinions.


---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Donald Trichell/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
* Mon	5:30p	All Parishioners who have died in the past year
* Tue	9:00a	In memory of May DiTomasso
* Wed	9:00a	In memory of A.J.S. “Jackie” Jumonville (death anni)/family
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of Barbara Tryon/Mills & Thompson
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Dale Magoun/G Cox
* Sat	9:00a	Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Inez, C.B., and Claude DeMoss and Clint Durr/family 
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish


**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

| Date | Servers | Lector(s) |
| :--: | :--: | :--: |
| 11/7 5:30p | None Scheduled | A Farlow |
| 11/8 9:00a | Walker/Marsh/Cooper | D Ellerbee |
| 11/14 5:30p | None Scheduled | A Keene |
| 11/15 9:00a | Carter, Chandler, MaryKatherine | Youth |
| 11/21 5:30p | None Scheduled | P Wilks | 
| 11/22 9:00a | Preston, Marsh, Evelyn | S Marsh | 

---


## Our Return to the Lord

| | |
| :--- | ---: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 | $ 2,111 |
| | |
| October Budget | $ 8,444 |
| October Income | $ 8,181 |
| October Expenses | $ 8,840 |
| | |
| November Budget | $10,555 |
| November 1 Collection  | $1,751 |
| November income to Date | $ 1,751 |

**Stewardship** Like the sensible bridesmaids in today’s parable, good stewards make sure that they, and whatever gifts are theirs to share, are ready to serve when the Master calls.

**Second Collection** to benefit the works of Radio Maria.

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Randy Dukes (Nov 11), Brian Johnson (Nov 11), Bernadette McFall (Nov 12), Brian McFall (Nov 13), Cathy VanDerVieren (Nov 13)

**Happy Anniversary** Marie and Norman Ernst (Nov 10) 

## In Our Daily Prayers…

PRAYER DURING HURRICANE SEASON...Our Father in Heaven through the intercession of our Lady of Prompt Succor, spare us during the Hurricane Season from all harm.  Protect us and our homes from all disasters of nature.  Our Lady of Prompt Succor, hasten to help us.  We ask this through Christ our Lord.  Amen

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Especially all of those impacted by hurricanes,  Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Stella & Fernando Calvo (Keene), Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Karen Cobb, Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Kim Dorbeck (Keene), Tommy Dunning, Eli Edgecomb(Gilfoil), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Bo Holloway, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), James H. Lossin (Keene),  Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas , Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Terri Wilson, Todd Windham

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood
Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones. 
 
*Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed.*
