---
title: The Third Sunday of Lent
date: "2020-03-15T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-03-15/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-violet.jpg"
description: "In the Gospel for the third Sunday of Lent, we see Jesus encounter the Samaritan woman at the well. The Samaritan woman is one of two known-sinful women Jesus encounters and like the Woman Caught in Adultery, the Woman at the Well is shown undeserved by the Lord."
tags:
  - "Lent"
  - "Marytrs"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


“Jesus came to a town of Samaria.”
Imagine a town like Tallulah that 100 years ago had only one Church - a Catholic Church. Now imagine that the folks in Newellton who had been traveling to Tallulah for Mass start getting their own new ideas about Church. They decide to set up their own Church - without a priest and without Mass - in Newellton. Time passes; kids are born; and the folks in Newellton just keep telling everyone they’re Catholic even though they’re clearly not… 

Now, imagine that this was more like 500 years ago and the name “Newellton” had become associated with people who misrepresent what Catholicism is and who are thought of as liars by everyone in Tallulah.

Samaria was an area that redefined the practice of the Jewish religion as they liked. They were heretics. They offered sacrifices outside of the temple - which is on par with having a buddhist offer “Mass” with tortillas on a roulette table and telling everyone that this is the same as when the Pope says Mass in Rome… The Jews HATED the samaritans in part because they believed wrongly, but far more, because their wrong beliefs mocked and undermined the right beliefs of the faithful Jews.

The background matters a lot because Jesus in the Gospel today is breaking a lot of rules. He’s talking to a Samaritan - who all Jews hate. Then we find out that she’s actually an adulteress - which is a big, giant red flag. And ultimately, we find out that she’s a liar.

Jesus is laying it on THICK that this woman is a hot mess. And yet even to her - God’s mercy, God’s forgiveness, and the living water of the Holy Spirit is offered freely and without reservation.

As Christians, we can easily take for granted that God offers these gifts to us freely, but we can’t lose sight of how valuable the gifts we are offered are. And we mustn't lose sight of just how easily the devil can convince people that their sins are too horrible to be forgiven. Lots of people fall to one side or the other (some say I have no sin, others say I’m beyond help)... This Lent, we should be cautious to acknowledge both our real need and the freeness of the gift.


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church. In Latin, Sanguis martyrum semen Christianorum. Contrary to common sense, when Christians are persecuted, more people want to sign up… Why? There’s a real spiritual reality in which the Holy Spirit is able to work more powerfully because of the presence of saints (martyrs) in a place. There’s a psychological reality as well because people tend to be drawn to that which is unquestionably real, true and believed. 

The past few weeks have seen lots of Catholic Churches in Europe temporarily closed for flu season. In years past, the opposite would have happened. Sure, we understand contagion better now than we did 100 years ago… But we also believed a lot more then than we seem to now… 

I can’t help but be aware of the stunning lack of faith being shown by clergy and lay people alike. I’m not talking about shaking hands during the sign of peace or receiving Holy Communion from the chalice. Both of those modern inventions are detrimental to the Catholic Faith generally speaking and so a temporary ban on them can only be a good thing. Rather, I’m thinking about the lack of novenas, processions, vigils and prayers being offered for victims. I’m thinking about the stunning lack of Christian witness from those heroically endangering themselves to anoint and provide spiritual care for the dying. 

Many of the most amazing saints in our history are known by their selflessness in the face of personal risk. The greatest saints are, after all, the martyrs. The Church uses the phrase “Crown of Martyrdom” with great reverence. In our own era, martyrs like Father Jacques Hamel and Bishop Oscar Romero aren’t remembered for their milquetoast preaching or largely forgettable pastoral work, they’re remembered for offering their lives freely in service to the Lord.

One of my personal heroes is Cardinal Robert Sarah, originally from Guinea. He was made a bishop at 36 years old and was on more than one assassination death list for his standing against government injustices in his diocese. 

I know and understand that this flu is scary and that Europe is twitchy right now for lots of reasons… But it still hurts my heart to see precaution bordering on cowardice from so many clergy all over the world. That cowardice is compounded by the still-open wound of abuse during which many of them hid behind lawyers and PR spokesmen. 

So what can I do? What can we say? Ultimately, the Church isn’t ours to fix. Jesus established the Church with plenty of questionable leaders from the very beginning. Why? To show forth HIS Glory. No one can mistake the Catholic Church as a success in world history because of our stellar leadership! We’ve had tons of crazy-pants bishops and lay people alike. That’s not why we’ve been the single most important organizational force in world history. The reason we’ve been the single most important organizational force in world history is that Jesus is Lord and He is head of the Church… That - and only that - is why we continue to put our trust in the Holy Roman Catholic Church!


---

## Calendar of Events

* _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_

* _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass except Jun & Dec_

* _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

--
* March 17	Pastoral Council Meeting - following 5:30 p Mass
* March 22	St Joseph Altar - Church Hall following 9 a.m. Mass
* March 25	Holy Day of Obligation -- The Annunciation of the Lord -- Mass on Tuesday at 5:30 p., at 9 a.m. at Legacy Nursing Home, or 6 p.m. at St Theresa, Delhi. 
* April 3	Lenten Soup Supper following Stations and Mass -- Church Hall
* April 11	Easter Egg Hunt on the church grounds at 10 a.m. 


## For Your Information:

STATIONS OF THE CROSS …  will be at 5:30 p.m. each Friday of Lent, followed by Mass
SOUP SUPPER….On Friday, April 3, we will gather in the Church Hall, following Stations and Mass, for supper and a short Lenten educational session.  

LENTEN REGULATIONS. Fridays of the season of Lent are days of abstinence from meat. The obligation to abstain from meat binds Catholics 14 years of age and older. The obligation to fast, limiting oneself to one full meal and two lighter meals in the course of the day, binds Catholics from the age of 18 to 59. Those who are younger or older may freely embrace these disciplines. But Lenten disciplines should never endanger your health.  Ash Wednesday and Good Friday are days of fast and abstinence. This means that we do not eat meat and we have only one full meal. 

It is obvious that abstaining from meat is meaningless for vegetarians, who must choose some other form of abstinence. It is equally obvious that replacing meat with a gourmet seafood meal is not in keeping with the spirit of Lent.

ACTS RETREAT...APRIL 16-19, 2020 at Maryhill Renewal Center.  Members of our faith family will be participating in this retreat...please pray for them as they prepare for the retreat.  For additional information, please contact Kendra Collins or check the table at the entrance of church.

SCOTLAND TRIP...Father Ryan will be guiding a trip to Scotland at a time in the future (the July date previously scheduled has been “bumped”).  The trip will be partly tourism and partly pilgrimage.  If you are interested, please contact Ginny Marsh for more details.

COMMUNITY CHOIR….the group that does the Christmas Choral Program is preparing a Palm Sunday program that will be presented at 6 p.m. on Palm Sunday at First Baptist Church.  If you have ever wanted to be a part of that group but did not feel that you had the voice to be involved, NOW is your chance….there will be a drama presentation along with the music and the group is actively looking for participants and need children as well as adults for the activity.  Michael Lancaster and Father Ryan are involved and would be happy to answer any questions you might have!

EASTER EGG HUNT...on the church grounds on Saturday, April 11, at 10 a.m.  Stephenie Marsh and Kate Copes will give leadership to the event so please check with them to offer your assistance.  We will need hard-boiled eggs that are dyed or plastic eggs with treats so your help is appreciated.


---

## Our Return to the Lord

* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* February Budget $8,444
* February Income $7,619
* February Expenses $8,804
* March Budget $10,555
* Collection March 7/8 $2,020
* March Income to Date $4,306

**Stewardship** When Jesus asked the Samaritan woman for a drink of water, He opened the door for a life-changing relationship with Him.  Scripture says her testimony drew many others to Him as well.  We, too, must be ready to respond whenever and wherever the Lord speaks to us and be prepared for it to change our lives!


Catholic Relief Services Collection next weekend (March 21/22) 


---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	For the special intentions of Chelsea Keene and Andrew Lewis
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
* Mon		NO MASS
* Tue		In memory of a special organ donor/Magoun
* Wed - Fri	**NO MASS as Father Ryan out of town**
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Darryl Ellerbee, Sr (birth anni on 19th)/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family


#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Chelsea Keene and Andrew Lewis

## Assistants at Holy Mass

* 3/14 5:30p
	* Lector: A Farlow
* 3/15 9:00a
	* Servers: C Marsh, H & K Ellerbee
	* Lector: Walker & Henry
* 3/21 5:30p
	* Lector: M Rome
* 3/22 9:00a
	* Servers: W Sullivan, M Wood, C Ellerbee
	* Lector: B Sullivan
* 3/28 5:30p
	* Lector: MA Gilfoil
* 3/29 9:00a
	* Servers: C Sullivan, C Wood, MK Marsh 
	* Lector: J Howington

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Shannon Wood (March 15), Mary Trichell (March 16), Alyssa Oliver (March 17), Angel Farlow (March 20)


## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Margaret Gilfoil, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedota

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil),  Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Carol Dunning, Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Todd Windham

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.  
 

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
