---
title: The Presentation of the Lord
date: "2020-02-02T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-02-02/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-white.jpg"
description: "The Feast of the Presentation shares the day with the Feast of the Purification of Our Lady. Both feasts recall (from differing points of view) the first entry of the Lord Jesus into the Temple and the profound experiences of the Holy Family as they meet Simeon and Anna."
tags:
  - "Presentation of the Lord"
  - "Purification of the BVM"
  - "BVM"
  - "Candlemas"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

*“Now, Master, let your servant go in peace, for my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared in the sight of all the peoples: a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and a glory for your people Israel.”*

This short prayer is said by priests and nuns every night before bed. It’s part of the “Divine Office” AKA “the Liturgy of the Hours.” 
In some sense, all of us are meant to sympathize with this old man in the temple named Simeon. All of us are called to wait on the Lord… No matter how much we know Him and love Him, serving the Lord is 100% a matter of listening for His direction and then following His instruction. 

Simeon is a living image of that waiting for the Lord. He, along with the prophetess Anna from today’s Gospel, are both symbols of the Christian ideal of “dwelling in the temple.” We are called in our daily lives to be near to the Lord… to grow constantly in the knowledge and love of God… to pray without ceasing… Simeon and Anna both do this and so when the Lord comes before them in an unexpected way and at an unexpected time, they are ready. Simeon and Anna both recognize the Lord whereas most everyone else doesn’t. 

In our lives, we should do our best to be near to the Lord and to grow in the knowledge and love of God by prayer, study, fasting, works of mercy and moral living. As we do that, we are more and more equipped to recognize the Lord when He reveals Himself to us and more equipped to respond when He directs us to some task. 

Just like a military man or a police officer learns over time to recognize when a situation is about to become dangerous or when a person may be about to attack, so we as Christians learn over time to recognize the Lord warning us away from certain situations or encouraging us to share our faith in others.

Simeon’s prayer is one we should all hope to be able to say toward the end of our lives… “Lord, let me go to my death now happy and fearless because I know and believe with my whole heart that you are the one true God and You have shown Yourself to me!”


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


Imagine, if you will, the early days of Christianity. There are off and on periods of peace and of persecution. Christians are preaching a message that is strongly at odds with most of the world - and it’s a small world. Most of us will never travel more than 40 or 50 miles. We’ll only hear music and stories from our local community. We’ll see three to five plays in the course of our lives. Every now and then, a traveling entertainer will pass through town. Most of our lives will be the daily grind of work and precious time spent with family. Our Faith is THE centerpiece of life - and it’s a short life. Most folks will die before 50 and even a small cut that gets infected or a simple fever can kill you in a week… 

And then, one day, one of your fellow Christians tells you that folks with eye problems have been visiting an underground cemetery to pray at the tomb of some dead girl… Well, the Romans don’t pray for the dead. They decorate the tombs to show off their wealthy, but they only visit them rarely. It’s even a little dangerous to go into some of these catacombs… They’re not marked or labeled and so if you get lost and your lamp burns out, you’re as likely as not to die before anyone finds you… And yet your friend tells you that people who pray at this tomb of this girl find their eyes healed of all sorts of things. Even people who prayed with the bones stolen from the tomb were healed! A few months later, someone else tells you about a bishop who heals throats… 

It’s hard for us to imagine how insane that must’ve sounded. Why eyes? Why bones? 

I can write the same kind of story for things like Holy Water or Scapulars or the Miraculous Medal. At some point, we’re left simply to acknowledge that the Lord has chosen to use certain physical things for certain spiritual effects. Surely, a dozen books have been written to explain or argue some theological blah blah blah… At the end of the day, though, the question isn’t so much “why” as it is “how.” Why ever God chose to use the bones of the saints - which we call “relics” - to bring about certain kinds of healing, He has! Why ever God chose to use St. Blaise to heal throats rather than whole heads or just Sinus Infections, He has! Why ever God chose to use Holy Water or the Brown Scapular or the Miraculous Medal, He has chosen to use them and the wisest response is to take advantage of the gift and say thank you.

This weekend, we have the blessing of throats at the end Mass. The blessing involves two long candles and a simple prayer from the priest: “Through the intercession of St. Blaise Bishop and Martyr, may God deliver you from every ailment of the throat and every other illness.” It’s an incredibly simple prayer. I, honestly, have no good answer to the question why. I don’t know WHY relics or Holy Water or the Latin Language or the Rosary or the Brown Scapular… I just don’t. I don’t know WHY, but I absolutely believe that God has given us these gifts and we ought to take full advantage of them every chance we get. 


---

## Calendar of Events

* _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_

* _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass except Jun & Dec_

* _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

* Feb 1/2	Blessing of Throats for Feast of St Blaise
* Feb 14	Quarterly Healing Mass at 5:30 p.m.a
* Feb 18	Pastoral Council meeting following 5:30 p.m. Mass in the Chur
* Feb 23	First Quarter Social - Potluck Brunch following 9 a.m. Mass in Church Hall




## For Your Information:

ALTAR SOCIETY DUES PAYABLE FOR 2020…All ladies of the faith family of St. Edward are considered members of the Altar Society which is responsible for the needs of the altar such as candles, wine, hosts, altar clothes and linens and decorations. It is now time to pay your $10 dues for 2020 and there are envelopes at the entrance of church for your convenience.  You may return your envelope in the collection basket or to the church office.

FIRST QUARTER SOCIAL … Sunday, February 23, 2020, following the 9 a.m. Mass in the Church Hall.  The First Quarter group (Jan, Feb, March) is  Margo Corulla and Darryl and Abby Ellerbee (co-chairs), Norman and Marie Ernst, Brian Johnson, Sidney and Mary Jane Johnson, Robbie and Tori Kivett, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Teddy and Alyssa Oliver, Mike and Sue Rome, Jason Trichell, Mary Trichell, and Levi Washington.  Mardi Gras will be the theme so dig out your favorite recipe and plan to join in the festivities!!!

EMPOWERING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go on line regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.
“Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse. 
“Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide”
The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential. 

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God for ever and ever.  Amen


---

## Our Return to the Lord


* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* December Budget $10,555
* December Income $9,341
* December Expenses $8,696
* January Budget $8,444
* Collection January 25/26 $2,015
* January Income to Date $9,005


**Stewardship** Blessed are they who are what they are and do what they do for the sake of the kingdom!  The Gospel today assures good stewards that their suffering and their service on behalf of the Kingdom will be rewarded.


---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Racer Holstead(birth anni Jan 29)/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
* Mon	NO MASS
* Tue	5:30p	In memory of Agnes “Pooche” Adams/Regan
* Wed 	5:30p	In memory of Suzanne Wood/Fulton
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of Rosa Gremshell  *Legacy Nursing Home*
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Becky Lancaster/Vedros
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Eva and R.L. Reynolds/Bullard
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family


#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

* 2/1 5:30p
	* Lector: P Wilks
	* EMHCs: A Farlow & C VanderVieren
* 2/2 9:00a
	* Servers: C Sullivan, C Wood, MKMarsh
	* Lector: D Ellerbee
	* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
* 2/8 5:30p
	* Lector: L Bullard
	* EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
* 2/9 9:00a
	* Servers: P Collins, M Wood, E Kivett
	* Lector: B Sullivan
	* EMHCs: C Howington & N Ernst
* 2/15 5:30p
	* Lector: A Farlow
	* EMHCs: L Bullard & Volunteer
* 2/16 9:00a
	* Servers: C Marsh, H & K Ellerbee
	* Lector: C Sullivan & C Marsh
	* EMHCs: N & M Ernst


---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Hazel Bedgood (Feb 2), Evelyn Grace Kivett (Feb 2), Dorothy Dyer (Feb 3), Susan Gilfoil (Feb 3), Blanche Wilks (Feb 5), Stephenie E. Marsh (Feb 6)


## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives
 
Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal 

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Marie Farlow Bellard, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Debbie Prine (Wilks), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.  


> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
