---
title: The Pentecost of the Lord
date: "2020-05-31T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-05-31/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-red.jpg"
description: "Pentecost celebrates the day on which the Church was born as the Holy Spirit descended upon the Apostles and they were charged with both the power and the responsibility to proclaim the saving truth of Jesus Christ and to celebrate the Sacraments among the peoples to whom they were sent."
tags:
  - "Easter"
  - "Pentecost"
  - "Holy Spirit"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## Up To Date Information on COVID-19
For up to date info on St. Edward’s response to the COVID situation, please visit
[StEdward.space](https://stedward.space/pages/live) and click on QUARANTINE. 

You can also visit [Facebook.com/StEdwardTallulah](https://Facebook.com/StEdwardTallulah). We also have a shared calendar that you can add to your phone or your computer calendar at [Bit.ly/stedwardcalendar](https://Bit.ly/stedwardcalendar). 

Please feel free to call\text (318-542-3316) or email (frhumphries@gmail.com) Fr. Ryan at any time if you have questions, concerns, ideas, suggestions, or pastoral needs. For better or worse, we’re all in this together. Don’t hesitate to reach out!


## From The Font


*“When the time for Pentecost was fulfilled, they were all in one place together.”*

Pentecost is a Greek word that means “fifty days” because it occurs on the fiftieth day after Easter. The Jews called the festival “Shavuot” which means Festival of “weeks” and it has to do with “jubilee.” For the Jews, the number 7 was a big deal. Remember God created the world in six days and the seventh was a time of rest. If you blow that up in time to weeks and years, you get the Jewish notion of jubilee. 

The holiest day of the Jewish calendar was Pascha - the Passover. We celebrate that as the Resurrection of Jesus and so it’s Easter for us. The harvest usually follows about two months later and so seven weeks of seven days (7 x 7 = 49) after the holy days of Pascha comes the harvest feast of weeks. The Jews do their part for the Lord and celebrate the Passover in hopes that God will do His part for the Jews and give them a good harvest. 
It’s all about finding God’s fingerprints on creation. The same idea is blown up even bigger when the Jews celebrate Jubilee years which occur every fifty or so years. This is very certainly a big part of why Jesus commands us to forgive seven times seven times. (Note that some translations botch this reference with seven times seventy or seventy-seven.)

There’s a lot of spiritual value to training ourselves to see the Lord in little moments of our lives. Whether it’s something “Hail Mary, Full of Grace, thank you for this parking space” or praising God when you walk from outside into an air-conditioned room or choosing a background for your phone with a prayer on it. 

The Jews and many of the great saints looked for symbolism not just in the scripture but in daily life. They choose their crops and their supper based upon their religious beliefs. A priest I know keeps his parish calendar in the kitchen. He eats two regular meals on regular days, three meals on feast days, and one meal on fasting days… The Lord really is at work around us in every moment and the only way we can obey St. Paul’s advice to pray without ceasing to train ourselves to see that in each and every aspect of our days.


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


Well, this Sunday marks the reduction in our schedule of live-streaming. I met with the Pastoral Council this month to discuss a number of little things surrounding our time during lockdown and our transition back to normalcy. I was pleasantly surprised at the positive feedback I got from my efforts.

When this all started, Ms. Anne was the one who asked me to start live-streaming. I knew there would be plenty of other priests who would provide plenty of content, but she pushed and I started doing my due diligence. As the time frame exploded from weeks to months, I invested a little more money and a lot more time. It was surprisingly rewarding. I know the Latin Mass wasn’t necessarily to everyone’s taste - but there were a fairly large number of folks who asked for it and there were very, very few priests able to provide for it. At the height of the quarantine, a few hundred people were watching the Sunday Mass in Latin. 

Still, the number one comment that I got from people in person and online was how good it was to see the Church and to know that Mass was being offered for them. 

I didn’t grow up as a very devout Catholic. We moved a good bit and so I don’t have much in the way of a nostalgic connection with a particular home or a particular Church. That feeling is what psych people would call a blind-spot for me. THANK YOU to those of you who reached out to tell me about the ways in which seeing the Church helped you during these difficult times. It’s a great example of how a Christian community is meant to operate. It’s a genuine gift to me to gain a broader perspective on our community and the way that we think about the interplay of faith and place.

One of the unexpected benefits of this whole thing is that I was able to work out a lot of kinks and problems with the technology and the building itself and so now we have a pretty solid and well-built streaming setup. There are a few very minor bugs to work out, but on the whole, the system is easy to set up and operate and it’s easy to establish a connection with that sense of faith and place for those who might be homebound or need to stay at the Olive Branch for a while. It’s certainly not meant as a replacement for Mass! Still, it’s an important extension of our parish’s efforts to minister to those who have special needs. 

We have the single smallest parish community in the Diocese of Alexandria. AND… We have probably THE healthiest financial and pastoral status of any parish in the Diocese. We’re offering plenty of Masses. We’re a community in outreach by providing for Sunday Mass in Delhi. We’re reaching out online as the only parish in the Diocese with a regular, weekly catechism lesson. We’re cooperating with other organizations to provide multiple Masses on Sundays and most weekdays. And starting this week, we’ll be the only parish in the Diocese (and the State) to offer First Friday and First Saturday devotions online. 
It’s a good moment to be honored and proud to be part of our little community here at St. Edward!


---

## Calendar of Events

- Saturday May 30
  - 5:00p Confessions (in the Confessional)
  - 5:30p Holy Mass
- Sunday May 31 _(Pentecost Sunday)_
  - 9:00a Holy Mass _(Live-streamed)_
  - 11:15a Holy Mass @St Theresa, Delhi
- Monday June 1
  - _No public Mass will be scheduled on Mondays. Fr. Ryan usually offers a private Mass around 9am. If he decides to live-stream or invite public attendance, it will be posted on his own twitter profile [@FrHumphries](https://www.twitter.com/frhumphries) and the parish facebook page [Facebook.com/StEdwardTallulah](https://www.Facebook.com/StEdwardTallulah)._
- Tuesday June 2
  - 9:00a Holy Mass
- Wednesday June 3
  - 9:00a Holy Mass _(Live-streamed)_
  - 10:00a The CU Catecast _(Formerly "COVID-Catechism", Live-streamed)_
- Thursday June 4
  - 9:00a Holy Mass
- Friday June 5 _(First Friday)_
  - _Fr. Ryan sometimes offers a private Mass around 9am. If he decides to live-stream or invite public attendance, it will be posted on his own twitter profile [@FrHumphries](https://www.twitter.com/frhumphries) and the parish facebook page [Facebook.com/StEdwardTallulah](https://www.Facebook.com/StEdwardTallulah)._
  - 5:00p Confessions
  - 5:30p Holy Mass & First Friday Devotions _(Live-streamed)_
- Saturday June 6 _(First Saturday)_
  - 8:30a Confessions
  - 9:00a Holy Mass _(Live-streamed)_
  - 5:00p Confessions
  - 5:30p Holy Mass

--

- Sunday June 7 _(Most Holy Trinity)_
  - 9:00a Holy Mass _(Live-streamed)_
  - 11:15a Holy Mass @St Theresa, Delhi
- Monday June 8
  - _No public Mass is scheduled on Mondays. Fr. Ryan usually offers a private Mass around 9am. If he decides to live-stream or invite public attendance, it will be posted on his own twitter profile [@FrHumphries](https://www.twitter.com/frhumphries) and the parish facebook page [Facebook.com/StEdwardTallulah](https://www.Facebook.com/StEdwardTallulah)._
- Tuesday June 9
  - 9:00a Holy Mass
- Wednesday June 10
  - 9:00a Holy Mass _(Live-streamed)_
  - 10:00a The CU Catecast _(Live-streamed)_
- Thursday June 11
  - 9:00a Holy Mass
- Friday June 12
  - _Fr. Ryan sometimes offers a private Mass around 9am. If he decides to live-stream or invite public attendance, it will be posted on his own twitter profile [@FrHumphries](https://www.twitter.com/frhumphries) and the parish facebook page [Facebook.com/StEdwardTallulah](https://www.Facebook.com/StEdwardTallulah)._
  - 5:00p Confessions
  - 5:30p Holy Mass _(Live-streamed)_
- Saturday June 13
  - 5:00p Confessions
  - 5:30p Holy Mass

## Notes on Events in the Church

* No more than fifty people in total may attend any service or gathering.
* All are asked and expected to observe the precepts of “social distancing.” Masks and gloves are welcome and strongly recommended, but not required.
* Holy Communion is available only under the single species of the Sacred Host.
* When the Legacy Nursing Home reopens for Public Mass, Thursday Mass will take place there.
* THANK YOU for your patience with us and for your cooperation!
* Further information from Archbishop Aymond and Bishop Marshall regarding the re-opening of Public Masses is available at DioceseAlex.org.


## For Your Information:

CONGRATULATIONS… to members of our faith family, Norman Ernst, III who was graduated from ULM and to Madeline Oliver who was graduated from Louisiana Tech University this Spring.  Proud parents are Marie and Norman Ernst and Alyssa and Teddy Oliver.

---

## Our Return to the Lord


* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* April Budget $8,444
* April Income $7,085
* April Expenses $7,910
* May Budget $10,555
* Collection May 23/24 $1,530
* May Income to Date $9,470

**Stewardship** In the second reading today, St.Paul reminds the Corinthians, “There are different gifts, but the same Spirit; there are different ministries but the same Lord.”  How am I using my gifts “for the common good”?

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of George and Margaret Magoun
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
* Mon		NO PUBLIC MASS
* Tue	9:00a	In memory of Agnes “Poche” Adams/Regan
* Wed	9:00a	In memory of DonaldTrichell/family
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of Rosa Gremshell
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Doris (birth) and Willie Guzman (anniversary)/Florence
* Sat	5:30p	For a special intention of the Magoun family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Cathy VanderVieren

## Lectors for Holy Mass

*Until further notice, Holy Communion from the chalice is suspended. When Louisiana enters Phase II, we will re-establish our schedule of altar servers from those wishing to volunteer to serve. Until that time, only Lectors are needed as assistants at Mass.*

* 5/30 5:30p
	* L Bullard
* 5/31 9:00a
	* D Ellerbee
* 6/6 5:30p
	* A Farlow
* 6/7 9:00a
	* A Keene
* 6/13 5:30p
	* MA Gilfoil
* 6/14 9:00a
	* S Marsh

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Anniversary** Betty and Kenny Smith (June 1)


## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond, Bishop-elect Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Wilson, Libby Bullard, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedota

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil),  Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Kim Dorbeck (Keene), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Bo Holloway, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), James H. Lossin (Keene),  Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Mary and Spencer Sevier and family, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Ray Thornton, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Todd Windham

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones. 

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
