---
title: The Solemnity of All Saints
date: "2020-11-01T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-11-01/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-gold.jpg"
description: "When a Holy Day of Obligation falls on a Sunday in Ordinary Time, the Sunday's readings and prayers are replaced by the higher ranking feast. As such, this Sunday we celebrate the Feast of All Saints."
tags:
  - "All Saints"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

*“After this, I had a vision of a great multitude, which no one could count… They stood before the throne and… cried out in a loud voice: “Salvation comes from our God, who is seated on the throne, and from the Lamb.”*

The intellectual tendency of the last 300 years is to “de-mythologize” religion from a robustly supernatural interaction with God into a mostly intellectual and symbolic practice without any real effects beyond my own psychological contentment. In our own age, that means going to Church is mostly about the sermon and the positive feelings that I want to have when I drive away.

Even a quick skim of the Bible shows a deeply supernatural religion subsisting across thousands of years. Even today, where the Church is understood to be supernatural, zeal and passion beyond mere intellectualism abound. In Europe, that’s mostly in the Charismatic aspects of Catholicism. The Charismatic renewal is associated with the so-called Charisms of the Holy Spirit: praying in tongues, ecstatic prayer, and the like. 

In the US, Africa, and India, the Charismatic Renewal is thriving alongside what some mistake to be its opposite, traditionalism. Traditionalists tend to be strongly doctrinal and tend to acknowledge that most of the problems in the Church and the world are relatively new and can be fixed by simply doing what had worked for the previous centuries. This usually means traditional spiritual practices like novenas, the Rosary, fasting, and more traditional Liturgical celebrations.

While there are hundreds of books analyzing these phenomena, the centerpiece of Catholic zeal has always been the supernatural, seen perfectly in today’s first reading where the saints cry out “Salvation comes from God!” The more attention, concern, and focus we give to the supernatural in our own lives - whether it be through the lens of the Charisms of the Holy Spirit or the lens of Traditionalism - the more we will undoubtedly find that the promises of God in this life (aka the Fruit of the Spirit, Ephesians 5).



## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


Who is the patron saint of Barbecue? I joke that it’s St. Lawrence the Deacon who was martyred by being grilled alive. He joked with the soldier in charge by saying “turn me over, I’m done on this side.” Morbid humor aside, is he really the patron saint of barbecue or of grill masters or of the Waffle House? If so, who decided that? Is there an application process? Can I nominate St. Francis of Assisi to be the patron of my street or of my family?

The idea of patronage as we understand it is historically complex. It’s an odd blend of ideas. For one, the economy of the Roman Empire in the first several hundred years of Catholicism was strongly driven by “patronage” in which the poor would go around begging for money from favored “patrons” who would expect political support or favors when asked. At the same time, though, Christians in the early Church were discovering the supernatural was much closer to them than it had been to the Jews. Holy Water, the veneration of relics, praying for the intercession of specific saints for specific types of healing weren’t exactly biblical ideas, but there wasn’t really a bible at the time either. Lots of the “discoveries” of the early Church weren’t so much driven by ideology or experimentation, they were driven by prayer and the Holy Spirit. This or that saintly Christian spent hours and hours in prayer and the Lord encouraged them to take up the work of exorcism or writing sacred music or theology. And from that work, which began on the knees and not in the mind, the practical theology of the Church found its origin.

Patronage of this or that saint, then, began as a mixture of the culture of the day and the practical theology of the early saints.

While this or that Pope has declared that Saint so and so is the official patron of whatever, the vast majority of patrons are simply chosen by someone as their own patron because of their story, interests, or needs.

Personally, I count St. Anthony of Padua, St. Benedict, Pope St. John Paul II, and Our Lady of Fatima as personal patrons. In part, I chose them. But really, in the course of prayer, I felt a nearness to these saints in particular. As a parish priest, I also ask for the prayers of St. Jean Vianney, whom Pope St. John Paul declared to be the official patron saint of parish priests.

Our parish is officially under the patronage of St. Edward the Confessor. Our secondary (formerly primary) patron is St. Agnes of Rome. These saints were chosen by the Bishop.

What does a patron do? Simply put, they pray for us and extend “actual” Grace to us through Our Lady, Mediatrix of all Graces, and the Holy Spirit, Advocate. Practically, that has real meaning in terms of the spiritual experience people have here. There’s also an essential component of example and human fraternity. I’ve made a big deal out of celebrating St. Edward’s life and legacy. His example is a good reminder to us of using well what we’ve been given. Finally, the patron is someone with whom we can actively seek spiritual friendship and guidance. 
On this feast, just dive in and ask a saint to be your patron!


---

## Upcoming Events

* Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
* Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass *unless otherwise indicated*
* Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p *unless otherwise indicated*

-
* Nov 1		All Saints’ Day ... Blessing of Graves begin at Silver Cross 3 p.m.
* Nov 2		All Souls’ Day … Mass at 5:30 p.m.
* Nov 6		First Friday Devotions to the Sacred Heart of Jesus - 5:30 p.m.
* Nov 7		First Saturday Devotions to our Blessed Mother - Mass and Holy Hour - 9 a.m
* Nov 22	Thanksgiving Celebration … Brunch following Sunday Mass



## For Your Information:

SUNDAY MORNING CATECHISM… Sunday Morning Catechism along with Coffee and Donuts after the 9 a.m Mass. Workbooks for all ages are available in the Hall, free of charge, to anyone who needs one throughout the year. Parents are strongly encouraged to attend these presentations as they will help you, as your child’s teacher, teach your children and, hopefully, increase your own knowledge of our Faith.

ANGEL TREE … beginning November 21, you will have the opportunity to select Angels that you may want to purchase gifts for during the Christmas season from the tree in the Church Hall.  Dana Dukes is giving leadership to our Angel Tree project this year.  If you have questions, please contact her or the church office.

ALTAR CANDLES … Anyone wishing to provide candles for the altar in honor of their loved one or in prayer for some intention may do so simply by asking. A \$10 donation  is recommended, but not required. A list of dates is in the sacristy and a date can be reserved up to one year in advance.

ROSARY GROUP … a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary.  Everyone is invited to join with the group.  If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403

FIRST FRIDAY … NOVEMBER 6 ...Holy Hour and Mass....5:30 p.m. ...make a special devotion to the Sacred Heart and attend first Friday devotions for nine consecutive months.

FIRST SATURDAY … NOVEMBER 7 … Mass and Holy Hour … 9 a.m. Our Lady of Fatima called for special devotions to be offered on the first Saturday of each month. Father Ryan will offer Mass on the first Saturday of each month in the Church. All are welcomed and encouraged to attend.

THANKSGIVING CELEBRATION POTLUCK BRUNCH… on Sunday, November 22, following Mass.  Mark your calendar and plan to join our faith family!

EMPOWERING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go online regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.

* “Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse.
* “Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide”

The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential.

CONGRATULATIONS….to our parishioners, Billy and Courtney Ernst Nadau, whose marriage was celebrated here last Saturday.

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Pat Bullard/Family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
* Mon	NO MASS 
* Tue	9:00a	In memory of Gus Gremshell
* Wed	9:00a	In memory of Paul Voran, Jr/Fr Ryan
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of Josephine Hodge/Weaver
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Becky Lancaster/family
* Sat	9:00a	Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Donald Trichell/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of the Wilks family**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

| Mass | Servers | Lector |
| :--: | :--: | :--: |
| 10/31 5:30p | None Scheduled | MA Gilfoil |
| 11/1 9:00a | Caroline/Henry/Kathleen | J Howington |
| 11/7 5:30p | None Scheduled | A Farlow |
| 11/8 9:00a | Walker/Marsh/Cooper | D Ellerbee |
| 11/14 5:30p | None Scheduled | A Keene |
| 11/15 9:00a | Carter, Chandler, MaryKatherine | Youth |

---


## Our Return to the Lord


Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
September Budget $8,444 
September Income $10,827
September Expenses $8,480
October Budget $8,444
October 24/25 Collection $1,142
October income to Date $7,781


**Stewardship** “The greatest among you will be the one who serves the rest,” Jesus says in today’s Gospel.  What wonderful good news for those who give of their time to service to others!

**SECOND COLLECTION** today is our once monthly collection for our parish Building Fund.

**NEXT WEEKEND’S SECOND COLLECTION** is to benefit the works of Radio Maria.


---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Don Wood (Nov 1), Jason Trichell (Nov 5) 

**Happy Anniversary** Stephenie and Lance Marsh (Nov 6)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

*PRAYER DURING HURRICANE SEASON...Our Father in Heaven through the intercession of our Lady of Prompt Succor, spare us during the Hurricane Season from all harm.  Protect us and our homes from all disasters of nature.  Our Lady of Prompt Succor, hasten to help us.  We ask this through Christ our Lord.  Amen*

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Especially all of those impacted by hurricanes,  Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Stella & Fernando Calvo (Keene), Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Karen Cobb, Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Kim Dorbeck (Keene), Tommy Dunning, Eli Edgecomb(Gilfoil), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Bo Holloway, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), James H. Lossin (Keene),  Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas , Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Terri Wilson, Todd Windham

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood
Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones. 
 
*Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed.*
