---
title: The Parish Patronal Feast of St. Edward the Confessor
date: "2020-10-11T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-10-11/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-gold.jpg"
description: "The feast day of a parish's patron saint is a Solemnity in that parish. If the feast day is in Ordinary Time, the pastor can choose to celebrate the parish feast day on the nearest Sunday. The feast of St. Edward is Oct 13 and so we celebrate his feast as a solemnity this weekend!"
tags:
  - "St Edward"
  - "Patronal Feast"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


A city set on a mountain cannot be hidden.There have always been some Christians, just as there were some Jews, called to abandon the world and take up a life of prayer and singular focus upon God. But for most people, the Lord calls for living in the world and taking an active part in it.

As with so many teachings in the Scriptures, today’s Gospel - which is proper to the Feast of St. Edward celebrated today only in Churches dedicated to Him - operates on several levels. 

First, Jesus is preaching to the Apostles who will establish the Church which must be the light of the world and which is meant to be a shining example for the world to see. 

Second, Jesus is preaching to us. We, too, are called to be light to the world and salt of the Earth. We too are called to be a shining example, although in a very different way. 

The Church preaches to the world as something separate from the world. The Church doesn’t play a role in politics or economics. The Church speaks to the moral and human principles upon which any society must be established. But the Church exists somewhere between Heaven and Haughton, between here and eternity. She has a foot, so to speak, in each world. 

We, on the other hand, preach to this world as part of it. We are active in our families, our communities, our businesses, our schools, our social circles, and our other interests. We show the world how to live the Christian life in the midst of being a mother or a banker or a retiree or a softball coach or a guitarist.
Both of these aspects matter! The “eternal” aspect of the Church corresponds to the Divinity and the Singular nature of God. The “imminent” aspect of the Church corresponds to the Presence of God among us and the Triune nature of God the Most Holy Trinity.

In all things, God reminds us that we are made in His image and likeness. In all things, God calls us to show to the world that He is the source of all goodness, joy and love. In all things, we are called to be the light of the world that others may see and come to know Jesus!


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


Today we celebrate the Solemnity of St. Edward the Confessor. Only Churches under his patronage celebrate him this weekend and we are privileged to be under his patronage.

St. Edward was an unlikely king of Danish heritage. He was expected to live and die in exile. Through his mother’s machinations and some wild coincidences (or maybe divine providence), he was made the King of England in 1042.

He was a good king. He didn’t have a lot of loose cash or leeway with the aristocracy. He didn’t make a bunch of dramatic decisions and didn’t lead armies in great wars. He was a good administrator and he understood people. He was a peacemaker among the Royal court and was faithful to the Church.

His greatest civil legacy was moving the center of government out of London to a little strip of land called Westminster. There, he built a beautiful church which we know as Westminster Abbey.

By all accounts, Edward was a fine king who took his family and religious obligations seriously. There are some great stories of his generosity.  He went to daily Mass, built Churches and wrote some lovely letters. 

Edward died in January 1066. That year should be familiar to history folks. It was Edward’s son who fought the famous battle of Hastings on October 14, 1066. That was the end of the Danish (aka Saxon) line of kings and the beginning of the Frankish line of Kings which remains in place today.

None of those things, though, tell us why he is a saint. For that, we have to skip ahead a few years. Edward was the end of a great line of kings and was buried in Westminster Abbey. Lots of folks ended up visiting his tomb and miracles started to happen. As the years passed, the miracles started to rack up and pretty soon, Edward was considered a saint. Back then, there was no formal process of canonization. The locals believed it, there were miracles, and the pope signed off. In 1161, King Edward became St. Edward the Confessor. Why “the confessor?” Simply because any male saint who wasn’t a pope, bishop, abbot, monk or martyr was called a “confessor” as in he “confessed the Faith.” It has nothing to do with the Sacrament of Confession at all. 

We are very thankful to God that we have been able to commission a beautiful painting of St. Edward through the generosity of gifts made after the deaths of Mrs. Becky Lancaster and Mr. Dale Magoun. 

We’re also thankful to Dc. Thomas Kennedy for obtaining for us a relic of St. Edward. Remember that St. Edward became St. Edward because of his miraculous relics. So we have a full-service miracle-working saint at our disposal. I hope and pray we all make use of it!

I hope everyone will plan to join us at the Hall for a luncheon in honor of our patronal feast!!

---

## Upcoming Events

* Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
* Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass *unless otherwise indicated*
* Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p *unless otherwise indicated*

-
* October 10/11	Feast of St Edward, the Confessor celebrated at both Masses
* October 11	Potluck Brunch to celebrate St. Edward’s Feast Day following 9 a.m. Mass
* October 16	Quarterly Healing Mass - 5:30 p.m.
* October 19-22 Priests’ Retreat - Father Ryan will be away from the parish and there will not be Mass
* October 27	(MOVED due to Priests’ Retreat)  Parish Council Meeting - Parish Hall - 6 p.m. 




## For Your Information:

SUNDAY MORNING CATECHISM… Sunday Morning Catechism along with Coffee and Donuts after the 9 a.m Mass. Workbooks for all ages are available in the Hall, free of charge, to anyone who needs one throughout the year. Parents are strongly encouraged to attend these presentations as they will help you, as your child’s teacher, teach your children and, hopefully, increase your own knowledge of our Faith.

ALTAR SERVER SCHEDULE… The Altar Server Schedule for Sunday morning Mass can be found on the table at the entrance of the church. If you have a child who needs to have training to be an altar server, please call Father Ryan and arrange for that training.

ALTAR CANDLES… Anyone wishing to provide candles for the altar in honor of their loved one or in prayer for some intention may do so simply by asking. A \$10 donation  is recommended, but not required. A list of dates is in the sacristy and a date can be reserved up to one year in advance.

FEAST OF ST EDWARD THE CONFESSOR CELEBRATION … POTLUCK BRUNCH…Our thanks to the Third Quarter Social Committee who will provide leadership to this endeavor -  Shannon and Bart Wood and Betty and Kenny Smith, co-chairs, MaryKathryn Book, Kendra and Dave Collins, Connie and Dan Copes, Bruce and Kate Copes, Dana and Randy Dukes, Lance and Stephenie. Marsh, Susie and Terry Murphy, Peggy and Phil Scurria, Beth and Chip Sullivan

HEALING MASS… Every few months, our usual Friday evening Daily Mass will be offered especially for the sick parishioners of our parish and Father Ryan will offer the Sacrament of the Anointing of the Sick for those of advanced age or those suffering serious health conditions. The next Healing Mass will be offered on October 16.

PARISH COUNCIL MEETING MOVED...new date is October 27, 2020 at 6 p.m.

PRIEST’S RETREAT...Father Ryan will be away from St Edward from the afternoon of Sunday, October 18 until mid-day on Friday, October 23 for Retreat.


---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Edgar Lancaster (death anni on 12th) and Becky Lancaster/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
* Mon	NO MASS 
* Tue	9:00a	In memory of Alex “Bubba” Jumonville (birth)/family
* Wed	9:00a	In memory of Josephine Hodge and Charlie Phillips(death anni)/Weaver
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of Dale Magoun/Vedros
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Eva and R.L. Reynolds/Bullard
* Sat 9:00a	Father’s Private Intentions (Traditional Mass)
* Sat	5:30p	Curley Mills (death anniv 10/21)/Mills-ThompsonIn memory of 
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish


**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of the Wilks family**

## Assistants at Holy Mass


* 10/10 5:30p
	* Servers: None Scheduled
	* Lector: A Farlow
* 10/11 9:00a
	* Servers: W Sullivan/M Wood/C Ellerbee
	* Lector: A Keene
* 10/17 5:30p
	* Servers: None Scheduled
	* Lector: M Rome
* 10/18 9:00a
	* Servers: C Sullivan/C Wood/MK Marsh
	* Lector: Youth
* 10/24 5:30p
	* Servers: None Scheduled
	* Lector: C VanderVieren
* 10/25 9:00a
	* Servers: P Collins/M Wood/E Kivett
	* Lector: A Oliver

---



## Our Return to the Lord


* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* September Budget $8,444
* September Income $10,827
* September Expenses $8,480
* October Budget $8,444
* October 3 / 4 Collection $1,640
* October income to Date $1,640


**Stewardship** In today’s second reading, St. Paul thanks the Philippians for being willing to share in his hardships and promises that God, in turn, will fully supply all their needs.  Our God truly cannot be outdone in generosity!

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Marsh Wood (Oct 11), Sidney Johnson (Oct 13), Kenny Smith (Oct 14), William Marsh (Oct 16), Kathleen Oliver (Oct 17), Charlotte McKay Marsh (Oct 18, 2016), Terry Murphy (Oct 18)



## In Our Daily Prayers…

PRAYER FOR HURRICANE SEASON...Our Father in Heaven through the intercession of our Lady of Prompt Succor, spare us during the Hurricane Season from all harm.  Protect us and our homes from all disasters of nature.  Our Lady of Prompt Succor, hasten to help us.  We ask this through Christ our Lord. Amen.

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Marie Cedotal
Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Especially all of those impacted by Hurricane Laura,  Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Stella & Fernando Calvo (Keene), Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Karen Cobb, Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Kim Dorbeck (Keene), Eli Edgecomb(Gilfoil), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Bo Holloway, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), James H. Lossin (Keene),  Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas , Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Terri Wilson, Todd Windham

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones. 
 
*Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed.*
