---
title: The Eighteenth Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2020-08-02T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-08-02/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: "As Ordinary Time continues amidst the marked un-ordinariness of pandemic, Jesus reminds us of His supreme authority over the Earth and all of creation."
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*“When Jesus heard of the death of John the Baptist, he withdrew in a boat to a deserted place by himself.”*

Jesus’ feeding of large groups is obviously a foreshadowing of the Holy Eucharist. The twelve baskets are certainly meant to signify that the Lord would spiritually feed both the chosen people (descended from the Twelve Tribes of Israel) and the disciples that would be made by his twelve apostles, signifying the Church He came to establish.

But the context in which He feeds the 5000 today is also important. For the last two Sundays, our readings have demanded that we face first the mystery of evil and then the world’s inability to satisfy our spiritual needs (hence the Lord’s call to search for the pearl of great price). Today’s Gospel itself begins with the sad news that John has been beheaded as a direct consequence of corruption and lust. 

Jesus’ response to sadness or evil is never a reply in the same mode. In the parable of the weeds and wheat, He turns our attention to the harvest. In speaking of the Kingdom, He points us to the pearl of Great price. In response to John’s Death, He turns to prayer. And in response to the hunger of the crowds, He points beyond the necessity of physical food to what theologians call the “eschatological” sign of the Holy Eucharist. The “Eschaton” is the Greek word for the second coming of Jesus and so the “eschatological” aspect of any teaching of Jesus is that which points to the end of days. As that regards the Holy Eucharist, we are taught to recognize it as the source and summit of our Christian lives.

All of these responses of Jesus are both an example and a gift to us. We face challenges all the time. Some of them are no big deal: the hot water is out; the dog is vomiting; my leg is sore. Some of them are huge and affect every aspect of our lives. Our response to these challenges is ultimately a functional proof of how much we have entrusted ourselves to the Lord. It’s not a final proof, but it is an ongoing measure of our Faith. If I see these challenges as meaningless coincidences, then I’m missing the Lord’s voice. If I respond to them in Faith, like Jesus does, they can become Treasure in Heaven.


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


Today is August 2. It’s a day of Universal Plenary Indulgence for the Feast of the Portiuncula. What is that you sagely ask? It’s the tiny little chapel where St. Francis built his first little hut and began the work of “rebuilding [the] Church.” It’s down the hill from the little chapel of San Damiano where St. Francis had a mystical vision of Jesus who ordered the future saint to “rebuild my Church.” Francis was unsure what that meant as he strolled down the hill, he saw this little chapel that couldn’t seat more than eight people. It dated back to the 300s and the roof had collapsed. Francis took the Lord’s words literally and built himself a small hut next to the chapel and started to rebuild it brick by brick. 

It was at this chapel of the “little portion” (AKA ‘porti-uncula’) that Juniper approached Francis and asked to join him in whatever it was God had called him to do. Francis agreed and what we call the Franciscans began.

For those who traveled with us to Rome in 2018, the portiuncula chapel is the one located inside the Basilica Church of the Holy Angels, which is the huge Church down the hill near the train station. It’s where we had Mass in the little chapel and then toured the famous rose garden where the roses grow without thorns. It’s also the site of the gigantic nativity set which changes each year and the peculiar statue of St. Francis which has a family of doves living in it. 

The indulgence is, itself, peculiar. It dates back to 1216 AD, looooong before plenary indulgences were common. St. Francis was awakened one night by the Lord and encouraged to step into his little chapel. When he did, the Lord encouraged Francis to approach the Pope about a plenary indulgence for all who would visit the chapel and say a prayer for the Church. Pope Honorius III was hesitant, but Francis was a strange bird and everyone knew when he said “the Lord had spoken to me,” only a fool would look the other way. So Pope Honorius III established a plenary indulgence for all who would:

* Attend Mass and receive Holy Communion
* Confess their sins and be completely free from attachment to particular sin
* Pray in the chapel for the Church and specifically for the Holy Father

About a hundred years later, the lines to pass through the chapel were so crowded that some people were left without an indulgence. Subsequent popes expanded the indulgence to be available to any who would say the requisite prayers in any Cathedral and then, later, in any Church. 

An indulgence, simply put, is a remission of the  punishment due to sin. Let’s say I stub my toe and a choice word passes my lips. I’m sorry about it, so I ask the Lord for forgiveness. Easy enough. BUT, all sin damages the soul. Maybe that choice word earns me an extra month or two in Purgatory. This indulgence contributes to speeding that healing and getting me out of Purgatory earlier. It doesn’t forgive my sins and if I’m not sorry for my sins, no indulgence can save me from the fires. But an Indulgence can assist me in the healing that Purgatory accomplishes and that’s why they’re a good thing to pursue. 


---

## Our Return to the Lord


* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* June Budget $8,444
* June Income $6,942
* June Expenses $7,988
* July Budget $8,444
* July 18/19 Collection  $2,672
* July income to Date $11,621


**Stewardship** In today’s Gospel, Jesus feeds the five thousand with five loaves and two fish. The message of stewardship is that God’s gifts, shared, will always be more than enough.

SPECIAL COLLECTION … next weekend, August 9 … for the Church in Africa.

---

## Notes On Events in the Church
* Masks and gloves are recommended. All are asked to observe the precepts of social distancing. 
* Holy Communion is available only under the single species of the Sacred Host.
* THANK YOU for your patience with us and for your cooperation!


## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Joseph Testa (death anni on 2nd)/Magoun
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
* Mon	NO MASS 
* Tue	9:00a	In memory of Josephine Hodge/C Phillips
* Wed	9.00a	In memory of Suzanne Wood/Fulton
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of Rosa Gremshell
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Dale Magoun/Vedros
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Donald Trichell/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish


**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Blanche and Skeeter Wilks**

## Lectors at Holy Mass


* 8/1 5:30p
	* A Farlow
* 8/2 9:00a
	* B Sullivan
* 8/8 5:30p
	* M  Rome
* 8/9 9:00a
	* S Ernst
* 8/15 5:30p
	* L Bullard
* 8/16 9:00a
	* J Howington

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Louise Magoun (Aug 2), Philip Scurria (Aug 6) 

**Happy Anniversary** Blanche and Skeeter Wilks (August 1), Margaret and Pat Gilfoil (August 3) 

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond, Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Libby Bullard, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, Terri Wilson, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedota

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil),  Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Kim Dorbeck (Keene), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Bo Holloway, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), James H. Lossin (Keene),  Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas , Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Todd Windham

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones. 

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
