---
title: The Third Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2020-01-26T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-01-26/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: "The Gospels are deliberately specific about where Jesus lived and what He did in order to make clear to us His anchoring in our history..."
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
  - "Prophecies"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*“He left Nazareth and went to live in Capernaum by the sea, in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali that what had been said through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled”*

Most religious prophecies from non-Jewish religions are vague and unspecific. They read like a newspaper horoscope or a carnival fortune teller’s predictions… Nostradamus prophecies a nondescript “disaster” which will usher in a “new age” of this or that. His readers are happy to change the spelling or words or to jump through logical hoops to prove his words true. The same with Hindu, Mayan, Aztec, and even Islamic prophecies. That vagueness helps the religious caste who can then apply it to any number of situations… 

Judeo-Christian prophecies, though, are shockingly specific. “He will be called a Nazorean.” “A virgin shall conceive…” “And you Bethlehem…” What’s even more amazing is that many of these prophecies about the Messiah seem to contradict one another. How can he be born in Bethlehem and also be a Nazorean and also somehow come from the “region of Zebulun and Naphtali?”

As with so many aspects of our Faith, God has gone out of His way to create a mysterious and even confusing puzzle in the Earthly life of Jesus. Rather than simply saying “here is a list of rules for what is right and wrong,” Jesus gives us a series of stories and parables. We get principles from Judaism and we get organizational structures from the Romans. We get religious patterns and ceremonies from the Jews and we get psychological and sociological principles wrapped up in Greek philosophy. And in all of this stuff, men of every age and time and nation in Christian History have found just the tools they needed within the Church to navigate the turbulent waters of their own era... 

Why all the prophecy? Why all the subtlety and nuance and potential for confusion across the 73 books of the bible and the thousands of pages written by saints and bishops and popes and counsels? Because the Lord knows each and every one of us and because He is the Lord of time and space. He has given to ALL of us just what we need for just when we need it. The rest, He keeps from us to protect us from ourselves...


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


This Tuesday, Msgr Francis Malone will be consecrated as the third Bishop of the Diocese of Shreveport. Shreveport has been without a bishop for almost two years since Bp. Michael Duca was appointed as Bishop for the Diocese of Baton Rouge. Msgr. Malone has been the pastor of a large parish near Little Rock for the past twenty years. 

His appointment causes us to ask when we will get a new Bishop. Our diocese has been without a bishop for just under one year since Bp. David Talley was appointed as the Bishop of Memphis, Tennessee in March of last year.

The process of getting a bishop looks like this:

FIRST the “Apostolic Nuncio” for the United States in Washington DC reviews the most recent “Quinquinniel Report” which the Diocese files with Rome every five years. This report outlines the good, the bad and the in-between about how the Diocese of Alexandria is doing and what our specific pastoral needs are from a new bishop.

SECOND the Nuncio reviews his master list of potential bishops (meaning priests who might be made bishops or bishops ready for a move). He compares the names he has with the needs of our diocese and compiles a “Turna” which is an ordered list of three names that he thinks would be a good fit for us.

THIRD the nuncio sends His list to the Congregation for Bishops in Rome along with copies of our report and thorough reports on each of the men he’s recommending 

FOURTH the Congregation for Bishops in Rome 
meets regularly and when our diocese gets to the top of the inbox, they review the report from the Nuncio in DC and either approve it, adjust it or send it back for reworking. When they have a list they’re happy with, they write short executive summaries of the needs of our diocese and the qualifications of each name on the list and send it along to Pope Francis.

FIFTH Pope Francis meets with the head of the Congregation for Bishops and either approves, adjusts or rejects the list. When a list is finally approved, it goes back to the Nuncio in DC.

SIXTH the Nuncio calls the name at the top of the list to offer him the job. If that man is already a Bishop, he is moved without much discussion. If the top name is a priest, he can say “no.” If he says “no,” the Nuncio calls the next name on the list. If all three say “no,” we hop back to step two and repeat until someone says “yes.” 

You might ask why someone would say “no.” The short answer is just that it’s a tough time to be a bishop. With so many bishops in the past fifty years having been awful administrators and having handled bad priests so recklessly, you can imagine how scary it is to suddenly be the one man responsible - legally, religiously and morally - for all that history. Many, many priests would rather love and serve their parish congregations than risk who knows what stepping into a role of leadership... 

That’s all the more reason we need to pray for whoever will be our new bishop and for all our bishops...


---

## Calendar of Events

* _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_

* _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass except Jun & Dec_

* _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_


* Feb 1		First Saturday Devotions to our Blessed Mother - Mass and Holy Hour - 8:30 a.m.
* Feb 1/2	Blessing of Throats for Feast of St Blaise
* Feb 14	Quarterly Healing Mass at 5:30 p.m.
* Feb 23	First Quarter Social - Potluck Brunch following 9 a.m. Mass in Church Hall

## For Your Information:

FIRST SATURDAY …FEBRUARY 1 … Mass and Holy Hour … 8:30 a.m. Our Lady of Fatima called for special devotions to be offered on the first Saturday of each month. Father Ryan will offer Mass on the first Saturday of each month in the Church. All are welcomed and encouraged to attend.

FIRST QUARTER SOCIAL … Sunday, February 23, 2020, following the 9 a.m. Mass in the Church Hall.  The First Quarter group (Jan, Feb, March) is  Margo Corulla and Darryl and Abby Ellerbee (co-chairs), Norman and Marie Ernst, Brian Johnson, Sidney and Mary Jane Johnson, Robbie and Tori Kivett, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Teddy and Alyssa Oliver, Mike and Sue Rome, Jason Trichell, Mary Trichell, and Levi Washington.  Mardi Gras will be the theme so dig out your favorite recipe and plan to join in the festivities!!!

CANDLES ON THE ALTAR OF SACRIFICE… Anyone wishing to provide candles for the altar in honor of their loved one or in prayer for some intention may do so simply by asking. A small donation is recommended, but not required. A list of dates is in the sacristy and a date can be reserved up to one year in advance.

FUND RAISING WITH GROCERY TICKETS...  If you shop at Doug’s and do not already do so, you may want to save your grocery tickets and place them in the bag on the table at the entrance to church.  The church will be given 1% of the total of combined purchases (excluding milk, cigarettes, and alcohol).  Our thanks to the ANGEL who collects the tickets and prepares them to submit to Doug’s

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God for ever and ever.  Amen

SAINTS ALIVE...ANGELS AT WORK….during the past Christmas season, the Angel Tree project at St. Edward reached 30 children in 12 families!  Each family received a children’s Bible and some hygiene items (toothbrushes, toothpaste, etc) and each child received a toy and clothing.  A food basket including a ham war well received by each of the mothers!  Dana Dukes, our coordinator, has received thank you texts from the families and many hugs on the day the items were picked up at our church hall by the moms!

---

## Our Return to the Lord

* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* December Budget $10,555
* December Income $ 9,341
* December Expenses $8,696
* January Budget $8,444
* Collection January 18/19 $1,777   
* January Income to Date $6,990

**Stewardship** The watchword today is “immediately.” Peter and Andrew, James and John all respond immediately to the call of Christ.May I beasopen to God’s call and as ready to use my talents in His service as those first disciples were!

THIS WEEKEND SPECIAL COLLECTION (Jan 25/26)...for The Church in Latin America.  Your gift supports many pastoral projects that benefit the faithful in Latin America and the Caribbean, including outreach to Venezuelan families affected by emigration.


---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Margaret Magoun/Magoun
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
* Mon-Fri	NO MASS
* Sat	8:30a	Rosa Gremshell     First Saturday
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Racer Holstead (birth anni Jan 29)/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass


* 1/25 5:30p
	* Lector: MA Gilfoil
	* EMHCs: M Rome
* 1/26 9:00a
	* Servers: W Sullivan, M Wood, C Ellerbee 
	* Lector: A Oliver
	* EMHCs: A Keene & L Magoun
* 2/1 5:30p
	* Lector: P Wilks
	* EMHCs: A Farlow & C VanderVieren
* 2/2 9:00a
	* Servers: C Sullivan, C Wood, MKMarsh
	* Lector: D Ellerbee
	* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
* 2/8 5:30p
	* Lector: L Bullard
	* EMHCs: P & M Gilfoil
* 2/9 9:00a
	* Servers: P Collins, M Wood, E Kivett
	* Lector: B Sullivan
	* EMHCs: C Howington & N Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Pat Bullard (Jan 25), Courtland Jude Collins (Jan 29, 2010), Evelyn Grace Kivett (Feb 2, 2011)


## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal 

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Marie Farlow Bellard, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Debbie Prine (Wilks), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.   

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
