---
title: The First Sunday of Lent
date: "2020-03-01T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-03-01/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-violet.jpg"
description: "The season of Lent begins once more with the moments after Jesus was Baptized in the Jordan River by John. Immediately, Jesus goes into the desert for forty days - in parallel to the forty years the Jews wanders waiting for the Promised Land. As the desert of old brought temptation to lose faith, so Jesus is tempted powerful - but He prevails."
tags:
  - "Lent"
  - "CoronaVirus"
  - "Crisis"
  - "Bible"
  - "Hermeneutics"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*“The LORD God formed man out of the clay of the ground and blew into his nostrils the breath of life, and so man became a living being.”*

The Bible isn’t a history textbook. It’s not even a single book… It’s a compilation of stories, poems, fables, lessons, prophecy, laws and a dozen other styles of writing which were committed to paper in about seven languages over more than a thousand years. That’s why it’s so incredibly difficult to interpret and understand even very familiar passages.
The first twelve chapters of the Book of Genesis are an ideal example. The first three or four chapters are technically-speaking mythological writing. They’re a myth. But we shouldn’t think of them as made up in the way that a Greek Myth about Zeus or Hercules is. Rather, they are a myth in the sense that they’re attempting to explain big, very complicated ideas by using a story which encapsulates some of the ideas. 

If I were to try to explain the moral foundations of the USA by telling the story of George Washington’s cherry tree, I would be using a myth… When the Book of Genesis speaks about Adam, Eve, the serpent, Cain, Able and Seth, it is using mythological language. Just as the details of George Washington’s cherry tree aren’t essential to the reality, so it doesn’t matter whether Adam was named Adam or whether Eve ate an apple or a pear. 

When the Scripture speaks about man being made from the clay, it’s not trying to explain the biological process. It’s explaining the way in which man, the Earth and God are related to one another. The same is true of the relationship between the nascent US, Liberty and George Washington’s moral compass.

The first chapters of Genesis are written to convey a foundational philosophy of the nature of the world and the universe (which is called a Cosmology) to generations of Jews and Gentiles who don’t have any other language or words to communicate it. 

We naturally do the same thing when we explain something we understand thoroughly to someone who doesn’t know what we’re talking about. 


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


In 1520, the Aztec empire was entirely destroyed by Smallpox. In 1620, the Bubonic Plague killed unknown millions in Europe. In 1720, the same disease spread through Western Europe killing hundreds of thousands more. In 1820, Cholera spread through Asia killing more than 100,000. In 1920, the so-called Spanish Flu became the deadliest plague in world history infecting 500 million people and killing 100 million of them…

Put like that, we’re all doomed!!!

Thankfully, that’s not the whole story. There were plenty of outbreaks, plagues, pandemics and illnesses that have spread in this place or that throughout history - even in years which didn’t end in 20. The Wuhan-Flu (AKA CoronaVirus) is a nasty bug in terms of contagiousness, but it’s thankfully not very deadly. Of course, that doesn’t mean anything to the families of the thousands of people who have died from it.

As Christians, we are called to respond in two ways which are fundamentally opposed to the wisdom of the world. 

First, we are people of prayer. We believe - we actually believe - that prayer is a real thing. It’s not just a psychological salve which makes us feel better like sending a Hallmark care or posting “thoughts and prayers” on social media. Prayer has real power because God IS real power. 

Second, as Christians, we know and believe that this world and this life are temporary. We are going to die some day and that’s something we ought to be anticipating not with terror but with a sense of hope even as it’s foreboding. Death is not the end of us and so the risk of death is not absolute. From the very beginning, Christians have chosen death rather than set aside our Faith. In addition to these so-called “red” martyrs, countless millions have given their Earthly lives to serve the sick and the dying. 

In Shreveport in the 1870s, Yellow Fever killed half the population of the city. It was horrific. Among those who died were five priests and twenty nuns. The nuns were stationed in Shreveport and gladly went among the sick nursing folks as they died. Four of the priests, though, weren’t in Shreveport by accident… They chose to enter the city and to forfeit their Earthly lives so that the dying might receive the Last Rites of the Church and go to Judgement having received Holy Communion as Viaticum.

The CoronaVirus is horrific. It’s going to get much, much worse before it gets better. Lots of people are going to die. There may or may not be blame to pass around to politicians, businesses, governments and whoever else. Our response, though, is straightforward: prayer and Christian Hope. In every Christian life, some crisis will arise and the response to that crisis is Prayer and Christian Hope.

That said, we will be taking some simple precautions against contagious diseases here in Tallulah. Holy Communion will be offered exclusively under the species of bread until further notice. We are a people of prayer and Hope, but we’re also a people of practical wisdom and precaution.


---

## Calendar of Events

* _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_
* _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass except Jun & Dec_
* _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_

-- 
* March 6 & April 3	Lenten Soup Supper following Stations and Mass -- Church Hall
* March 22	St Joseph Altar - Church Hall following 9 a.m. Mass
* March 25	Holy Day of Obligation -- The Annunciation of the Lord -- Mass on Tuesday at 5:30 p., at 9 a.m. at Legacy Nursing Home, or 6 p.m. at St Theresa, Delhi. 



## For Your Information:

DAYLIGHT SAVINGS CHANGES NEXT SUNDAY….SPRING your clock forward an hour!

STATIONS OF THE CROSS … during Lent will be at 5:30 p.m. each Friday followed by Mass
SOUP SUPPER….On the Fridays of March 6 and April 3, we will gather in the Church Hall, following Stations and Mass, for supper and a short Lenten educational session.  
MISSION … we will NOT have a Mission this year but Father Ryan will be conducting a Mission at St. Patrick in Lake Providence on Monday, March 9 and Tuesday, March 10, at 6 p.m. if anyone would like to attend..

LENTEN REGULATIONS. Fridays of the season of Lent are days of abstinence from meat. The obligation to abstain from meat binds Catholics 14 years of age and older. The obligation to fast, limiting oneself to one full meal and two lighter meals in the course of the day, binds Catholics from the age of 18 to 59. Those who are younger or older may freely embrace these disciplines. But Lenten disciplines should never endanger your health.  Ash Wednesday and Good Friday are days of fast and abstinence. This means that we do not eat meat and we have only one full meal. 

It is obvious that abstaining from meat is meaningless for vegetarians, who must choose some other form of abstinence. It is equally obvious that replacing meat with a gourmet seafood meal is not in keeping with the spirit of Lent.

EMPOWERING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go on line regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.

* “Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse. 

* “Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide”
The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential. 

KEENE-LEWIS...Chelsea Keene and Andrew Lewis invite you to join with their families to witness the Renewal of their Vows before the Lord on Saturday, March 14, 2020 at 7 p.m., St. Edward the Confessor Catholic Church.

SAINTS ALIVE…ANGELS AT WORK…the Mardi Gras Social last Sunday was GREAT!  Thanks to the Committee for their setting up and decorating AND to all the cooks who outdid themselves!!! 


---

## Our Return to the Lord


* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* January Budget $8,444
* January Income $9,133
* January Expenses $8,470
* February Budget $8,444
* Collection February 22/23 $1,512
* February Income to Date $7,589


**Stewardship** What temptations lure us from the path of discipleship?  Possessions?  Pride?  Power? Oh Lord, create for us a clean heart and renew a steadfast spirit within us!

This weekend (March 1)... our Second Collection is for Black and Indian Missions to help build the church and preach the Gospel of Jesus among the African American, Native American and Alaska Native people of God across the United States.


---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Matt Farlow/VanderVieren
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
* Mon	NO MASS
* Tue	5:30p	In memory of SarahPhillips/family
* Wed 	5:30p	In memory of Racer Holstead (death anniv)/family
* Thu	9:00	In memory of Gus Gremshell              Legacy Nursing Home
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Becky Lancaster/family
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Bill Adams/Regan
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family


#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

*Holy Communion from the chalice is temporarily halted during Flu season*

* 2/29 5:30p
	* Lector: C VanderVieren
* 3/30 9:00a
	* Servers: C Sullivan, C Marsh, MK Marsh
	* Lector: J Howington
* 3/7 5:30p
	* Lector: L Bullard
* 3/8 9:00a
	* Servers: P Collins, M Wood, E Kivett
	* Lector: A Oliver
* 3/14 5:30p
	* Lector: A Farlow
* 3/15 9:00a
	* Servers: C Marsh, H & K Ellerbee
	* Lector: W Sullivan & H Ellerbee

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Kathleen Mills (March 3),  Levi Washington (March 10)


## In Our Daily Prayers…

**PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP** Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God for ever and ever.  Amen


Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives
 
Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Margaret Gilfoil, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal 
Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Marie Farlow Bellard, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil),  Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Michael Hanlon, Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.  


**PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.**

**PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.**
