---
title: The Fifteenth Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2020-07-12T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-07-12/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: "As Ordinary Time continues, Jesus teaches how the Christian Life is to be led. This week, Jesus explains why He teaches in parables."
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*“Why do you speak to them in parables?”*

Jesus certainly wasn’t the first teacher to use stories as a teaching tool. Most of the Bible is narrative stories which reveal something about the Lord and His plan for humanity. In fact, many of Jesus’ parables probably weren’t even original to Him. We don’t know for sure, but the tone of the specific texts of the Gospels and the way in which some details are left out makes experts think that Jesus was using fables well-known to His audience and putting an unexpected twist on the story. The stories of the Good Samaritan and the Prodigal Son very likely fall into this category.

The thing about parables that we generally don’t consider is that the human mind is wired to think in stories far more than it is set up to think in abstractions. When a teacher tries to explain math or philosophy or theology or physics, it’s better to start with an illustration of what’s happening. Mike has three apples and each of those apples has ten seeds; how many seeds does Mike have? Sure, the formula is easy enough: 3 x 10 = 30, but the story grounds the question and makes it stick.

Today’s Gospel is a great example of the connection between the parables and the more complicated theology. Jesus tells the parable about the sower. Then, He pulls His disciples aside and explains that each of the types of soil is symbolic of the disposition of the soul. If the soul is well disposed, then their teaching will be successful. If the soul is poorly disposed - for various reasons - the exact same teaching will be unsuccessful. So, the disciples shouldn’t judge the teaching based on the reception, rather, they should teach the truth fully, faithfully and then move along.

Even today in our very well educated society, most folks would prefer their Sunday sermons to be more relatable than theological. In a previous assignment, people with advanced degrees told me they preferred to attend Mass with their school-aged children because so much of the sermon was driven by stories and examples.

Stories and parables are limited, but they are an incredible gift and they’re hard-wired into the way we think. That’s why Jesus spoke to them in parables.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


This Tuesday is the feast day of St. Kateri Tekakwitha, the Lily of the Mohawks. Kateri - which is the Mohawk spelling of Catherine - lived in New York state in the mid 1600s during a particularly nasty Smallpox epidemic. She went from the teenaged daughter of chieftain to an orphan in a matter of days and her natural beauty which had literally been the subject of songs was scarred with pockmarks all over her face. She spent a few years trying to find a place within the tribe, but the disease had ended that life. At the young age of 19, she left her home and moved to what is now Montreal where she converted to Christianity and took the name Kateri that we use for her today. She opted not to seek marriage and not to become a nun - which was exceedingly odd for that time. Instead, she lived the remainder of her short life working as a missionary and died at the age of 24. Kateri is the first Native American to be canonized.

Her story is particularly apropos to our day and age. She lived in a village where life stayed the same. A young person grew up with a sense of what kind of life they would lead and little or nothing changed that idea. Nowadays, life changes so quickly. Still, we tell our children that they can do whatever they want. But all it takes is a single social media post or youtube video to be cancelled from an entire career path. This pandemic has closed countless businesses that were, themselves, the results of decades of hard work and sacrifice. People who have spent years overcoming addictions or dealing with mental illness are finding themselves back at square one. Families who had established a rhythm of life which balanced jobs with study and sports and skills are now trying to redefine their entire family dynamic without any meaningful sense of how long this new system needs to be sustainable. The chaos of our lives is shockingly similar to the daily life of our ancestors and St. Kateri’s, in particular. That she was set akimbo by disease is even more relevant to our day.

St. Kateri’s unexpected and unorthodox response is also encouraging. In a time where more and more of us want to do things our own way, her choice not to embrace the obvious options but to serve the Lord is the best way she could given her circumstances is inspiring. Sure, there are some folks reading this who should consider priesthood or the religious life. There are some parents and grandparents reading this who should be talking about a religious vocation with their kids. There are some who could very well do some missionary work. But for most of us, huge life changes aren’t something we would like to choose for ourselves. On the contrary, we should be looking for what we can do to serve the Lord where we are. Are you willing to do some study and teach a lesson at the local parish Church? Are you willing to help Father work with the youth or the teenagers of the parish? Are you willing to step up and organize an AA or Al-Anon group? What about those folks dealing with anxiety or depression, is anyone willing to be of help to them? The current moment is a genuine opportunity to be of service in ways un-looked-for… Can we find in the story of St. Kateri an example for our own time of life-changing pandemic?


---

## Calendar of Events

* Saturday, July 11
	* 5:00p Confessions
	* 5:30p Holy Mass
* Sunday, July 12
	* 9:00a Holy Mass Live-Streamed
	* 11:15a Holy Mass @St Theresa, Delhi
* Tuesday July 14
	* 9:00a Holy Mass
* Wednesday, July 15
	* 9:00a Holy Mass Live-streamed
	* 10:00a The CU Catecast Live-streamed
* Thursday, July 16
	* 9:00a Holy Mass
* Friday, July 17
	* 5:00p Confessions
	* 5:30p Holy Mass Live-streamed
* Saturday, July 18
	* 5:00p Confessions
	* 5:30p Holy Mass


## For Your Information:

PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, JULY 21,  at 6:00 p.m in the Church Center.  All members are requested to make a special effort to attend.  Parishioners are encouraged to attend and contribute to the discussions.  

PASTORAL COUNCIL…for 2020-2023 newly  appointed members of the Council Louise Magoun and Blanche Wilks join Ginny Marsh and Beth Sullivan (2018-2021), and MaryAnne Gilfoil and Levi Washington (2019-2022).  Newly appointed as Trustees by the Bishop are Michel Lancaster and Cathy VanderVieren.  Appointed by the pastor to serve as Finance Council Chair is Darryl Ellerbee. 

WELCOME… The Neuroth-Reynolds-Tryon Family Reunion held its annual gathering on Saturday, July 11 here at St Edward’s.  Members of our faith family taking part include Kathleen and Ed Mills, Libby Bullard, Margo Corulla, Frances Kennedy, Bobby Reynolds and their families.  

---

## Our Return to the Lord


* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* June Budget $8,444
* June Income $6,942
* June Expenses $7,988
* July Budget $8,444
* Collection July 4/6 $4,305
* July income to Date $4,305

**Stewardship** “May our stewardship of time, talent, and treasure show us to beaming those who have heard the message of Christ and taken it in, yielding a hundred or sixty or thirty fold!

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In honor of Katie (birthday on 13th)/Magoun
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
* Mon		NO MASS 
* Tue	9:00a	In memory of Jack Ellerbee/family
* Wed	9.00a	In memory of Josephine Hodge/Weaver
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of Rosa Gremshell
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Dale Magoun/G Cox
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Sue Scurria/Wilks
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish


#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Louise Magoun

#### FLOWERS on the altar this week are in memory of Jack Ellerbee by his family.

## Lectors at Holy Mass


* 7/11 5:30p
	* L Bullard
* 7/12 9:00a
	* A Oliver
* 7/18 5:30p
	* C VanderVieren
* 7/19 9:00a
	* K Collins
* 7/25 5:30p
	* MA Gilfoil
* 7/26 9:00a
	* D Ellerbee

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Chip Sullivan (July 11), Aidan Collins (July 12), Sue Rome (July 16), Caroline Marsh (July 19) 

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond, Bishop-elect Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives
 
Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Libby Bullard, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, Terri Wilson, and Don Wood
Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedota

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil),  Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Fr Chris Decker and The Catholic Underground Ministry, Carol Dipert (Rome), Kim Dorbeck (Keene), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Bo Holloway, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), James H. Lossin (Keene),  Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Mary and Spencer Sevier and family, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Ray Thornton, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Todd Windham

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones. 


> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
