---
title: The Sixth Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2020-02-16T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-02-16/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: "This Sunday's Gospel is the meat and potatoes of the so-called Sermon on the Mount in which Jesus outlines the moral programme of the Christian Faith. We are told that the Law isn't meant to be an end, but an instruction. We're told to go above and beyond and that obedience is a part of love."
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
  - "Politics"
  - "President Trump"
  - "Our Lady of Fatima"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*“If you choose, you can keep the commandments...”*

While it’s 100% true that we can’t please God without His direct assistance (see Mk 10:18), it’s manifestly untrue that any one of us can’t DO what the Lord has instructed us to do. Over and over, the Bible makes it clear that what the Lord asks of us is doable. My favorite example is from Hebrews 12 which begins “since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us throw off everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles…”
 
We CAN live the Christian Faith. It’s not some unreachable ideal to which we can only aspire. We can do it. We can go to Mass on Sundays and Holy Days. We can pray every day. We can do penance regularly. We can fast weekly and abstain from meat on Fridays. We can assist the poor when we encounter them. We can obey the moral law and we can go to confession when we slip up. We can avoid the near occasion of sin and we can make deliberate choices to grow in the knowledge of God and in the love of God. 

Surely, we can’t do those things “perfectly” whatever that means. But we can do them and we can make the Christian life a top priority in the decision-making of our lives.

Of course, our first reading makes it clear that it’s easy to do that once in a while; it’s really hard to do it day in and day out. Much like exercise, the habit is hard to form. And there are plenty of temptations and distraction and obstacles along the way. There is a spiritual war going on around us and none of us is immune to his own human weaknesses. Still, we CAN live the Christian life if we choose to.

And so when we come across some passage of scripture or some teaching in the Catechism or we hear some lesson in the sermon which is particularly challenging, we have to remember that God made these commandments especially for us and so we CAN do it. It’s not as if God’s commandments are like asking a fish to climb a tree. We have what we need and the Holy Spirit is on our side and the Sacraments are available and if we choose, we can keep the commandments and if we love the Lord, we will.


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


The past two weeks were fascinating for me, especially in politics. President Trump has his BestWeekEver™ which included the chaos of the Iowa caucuses, an amazing State of the Union speech, Nancy’s tantrum, the Acquittal™ and plenty of other tidbits of interest. I have to admit a certain amount of schadenfreude as I watched the Vindman twins being escorted from the White House… It was a fascinating week for a lot of reasons, far too many to write on this short page.

At the same time, it raised a few interesting moral and religious issues that are worth thinking about more deeply.

For one, what is the purpose of law and justice and the traditions of our governmental structure with its checks and balances? It would seem that more than a few of our politicians are interested ONLY in gaining power. Surprisingly few of them seem to know what they want to do with that power. As much as I’ve enjoyed watching Mitch McConnell install originalist judges, I wonder if he’s doing it for the good of the nation or just to block potential future activist judges. As much as I’m glad to see Ted Cruz embrace a stronger, more confident political persona, I wonder if he’s doing it for the nation or just to start his campaign for 2024. On the left, it’s hard to see the Impeachment effort as anything other than a blind grasp for power without any real sense of what that means. Adam Schiff’s constant lies and Nancy Pelosi’s unhinged political theater at the SOTU surely don’t seem to serve  any public  purpose or to affect any policy or program. Interestingly, Trump - the admitted showman and party-flipper - is clearly working toward specific advancement of the rule of law and doing so at great personal expense. It could be a ruse, but at least it looks like the real deal…

And that’s another of these deeper questions that I considered these past weeks. Is Trump the real deal? Can a life-long style-over-substance New York showman (maybe even conman) really be what he claims to be? I don’t believe for a second that the man is a deeply-believing Christian, but he’s implementing policies like he is. He may be privately pro-abortion, but he’s the most pro-life president in US history.

In some ways, Trump is the Anti-Kennedy. In 1969 in Houston, JFK made it clear that he would not let his Catholic Faith play any role at all in his leadership as president of the USA. Now, Trump seems to be leading with the language and policy choices of faith whatever his personal religious convictions may be. And I do wonder what his personal faith is! President Trump has on several occasions invited priests to the White House to install images of our Lady of Fatima and to perform prayers of blessing and exorcism over various rooms and offices. 

All of this leads me to ask what makes a good leader - personal conviction or representation of the public will? Trump was elected to do specific things which he’s doing. His Twitter feed makes it clear he’s neither humble nor meek. In reality, none of us is likely to know for real what passes through the minds of anyone other than ourselves and yet it’s good to ask deeper questions about the things we see in our daily lives. 


---

## Calendar of Events

* _Confessions every Fri & Sat from 5p until Mass at 5:30p and on Sun from 9a until 9:30a Mass_

* _Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday after the 5:30p Mass except Jun & Dec_

* _Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:30a Mass unless otherwise indicated_


* Feb 18	Pastoral Council meeting following 5:30 p.m. Mass - Church Hall
* Feb 19	Wednesday Night Catechism following 5:30 p.m. Mass - Church Hall
* Feb 23	First Quarter Social - Potluck Brunch following 9 a.m. Mass - Church Hall

## For Your Information:


PASTORAL COUNCIL...PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, at 6:00 p.m(after 5:30 p.m. Mass) in the Church Center.  All members are requested to make special effort to attend.  Members of the Council:  MaryAnne Gilfoil, Michael Lancaster, Ginny Marsh, Beth Sullivan and Levi Washington.  Appointed as Trustee by the Bishop is Brian Johnson.  Appointed by the pastor to serve as Finance Council Chair is Darryl Ellerbee.  Additionally, serving on the Council in an ex-officio capacity as President of the Altar Society is Cathy VanderVieren. Parishioners are encouraged to attend and contribute to the discussions.  

WEDNESDAY EVENING CATECHISM...WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19 - In the Church Hall, after the 5:30p Mass.  Father will answer questions as a part of each talk. Guests are welcome! 

FIRST QUARTER SOCIAL … Sunday, February 23, 2020, following the 9 a.m. Mass in the Church Hall.  The First Quarter group (Jan, Feb, March) is  Margo Corulla and Darryl and Abby Ellerbee (co-chairs), Norman and Marie Ernst, Brian Johnson, Sidney and Mary Jane Johnson, Robbie and Tori Kivett, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Teddy and Alyssa Oliver, Mike and Sue Rome, Jason Trichell, Mary Trichell, and Levi Washington.  Mardi Gras be the theme so dig out your favorite recipe and plan to join in the festivities!!!

ACTS RETREAT...APRIL 16-19, 2020 at Maryhill Renewal Center.  For additional information, please contact Kendra Collins or check the table at the entrance of church.

SCOTLAND TRIP IN JULY 2020...Father Ryan will be guiding a trip in July to Scotland, and possibly England and Ireland.  The trip will be partly tourism and partly pilgrimage.  If you are interested, please contact Ginny Marsh for more details. 

PRAYER FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW BISHOP...Praise to you, Lord our God, our eternal shepherd and guide.  In your faithfulness, grant to the Diocese of Alexandria a new bishop whose watchful care will serve to continue the good work of his predecessors.  In your Love, give us a shepherd who will lead us in being Christ’s heart of mercy, voice of hope,and hands of justice. Help him to fill our minds and hearts with the truth of the Gospel, the power of the sacraments, and the desire to build up your holy Church.  We ask this through Jesus Christ,your Son our Lord, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God for ever and ever.  Amen


---

## Our Return to the Lord

* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* January Budget $8,444
* January Income $9,133
* January Expenses $8,470
* February Budget $8,444
* Collection February 8/9 $2,978
* February Income to Date $3,994


**Stewardship** Stewardship involves more than just the gift we bring to the altar.  Today’s readings say clearly that it is  fidelity to God’s law that makes our offering acceptable.

---

## Mass Schedule & Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Curt Farlow/VanderVieren
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased members of our Parish
* Mon		NO MASS
* Tue	5:30p	In memory of Josephine & Billy Hodge/family
* Wed	5:30p	In memory of John Johnson (birth anni)/family
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of  May DiTomasso                 Legacy Nursing Home
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Becky Lancaster/Vedros
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Bitsy A Weimer/Regan
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Dead members of our Parish Family

#### ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla

## Assistants at Holy Mass

* 2/15 5:30p
	* Lector: A Farlow
	* EMHCs: L Bullard & Volunteer
* 2/16 9:00a
	* Servers: C Marsh, H & K Ellerbee
	* Lector: C Sullivan & C Marsh
	* EMHCs: N & M Ernst
* 2/22 5:30p
	* Lector: M Rome
	* EMHCs: MA Gilfoil & C VanderVieren
* 2/23 9:00a
	* Servers: W Sullivan M Wood C Ellerbee
	* Lector: J Howington
	* EMHCs: B Smith & K Collins
* 2/29 5:30p
	* Lector: C VanderViere
	* EMHCs: A Farlow & L Magoun
* 3/1 9:00a
	* Servers: C Sullivan, C Marsh, MK Marsh
	* Lector: D Ellerbee
	* EMHCs: N & M Ernst

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Mike Rome (Feb 14), Kate Copes (Feb 15), Tim Harris (Feb 15)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

 Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Archbishop Aymond and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives
 
Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Terri Brown, Pat Bullard, Connie Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Margaret Gilfoil, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell and Don Wood
Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Jean Cantrell, Marie Cedotal 

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Weimer Alexander (Regan), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Marie Farlow Bellard, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil),  Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Colton Bullock (Farlow), Richard Chappuis (Johnson), Karen Cobb, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Melinda and son, Will, Fewell (Farlow), David Fortenberry, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Cooper Harris (R Wood), Bo Holloway, Diane Johnson (Johnson), Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), Ben Lenhart (G Marsh), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire (Gilfoil), Tobie McKowen (Wilks), Keith Melancon (Regan), Tucker Melancon (Johnson), Lindsay Mills, Debbie Pettis (Rome), Sam and Betty Phillips (Hodge), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Debbie Prine (Wilks), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Walter Scott, Andy Sevier, Beverly Sibile (Gilfoil), Theresa Thom (Rome), Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Adam Triplett (Reynolds), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Conner and Hudson Wood (nephews of Bart)

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Norman Ernst, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.

> PLEASE LET US KNOW OF ANYONE WHO IS ILL OR HOSPITALIZED OR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE A VISIT.
> PLEASE HELP US TO UP-DATE OUR PRAYER LIST BY ADVISING US OF ANYONE WHO SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM THE PRAYER LIST.
