---
title: The First Sunday of Advent
date: "2020-11-29T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-11-29/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-violet.jpg"
description: "And so Advent begins..."
tags:
  - "Advent"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*“May He not come suddenly and find you sleeping.”*

The ancient Jewish people were big fans of little blessing-type phrases like this. These kinds of phrases tie together best wishes and hopes and exhortations and even a little teaching along-side a more faith-driven sense of luck. They also function like a little prayer and maybe even something superstitious like what we mean when we answer a sneeze with “Bless you.”

Many people nowadays are derisive of these kinds of speech. They either dismiss them as meaningless superstition or they’re offended by them as injecting religion into parts of life where it isn’t wanted.

In reality, injecting religion is exactly what they’re meant to do. These little admonitions are designed to remind us of the religious significance of all the little aspects of our daily lives. If we drive past a Church or a graveyard, we cross ourselves with the Sign of the Cross. If we’re told someone has died, we do the same. 

Most of the little superstitions that we have about black cats, broken mirrors, spilled salt, and others trace back to small religious practices or phrases that were meant to work just like this little phrase in today’s Gospel.

And while there’s no spiritual component to throwing salt over one’s shoulder, there is a value in remembering that religion IS a part of everything we do. Modesty is a part of getting dressed in the morning and posting on FaceBook in the afternoon. Humility is a part of the work environment and it’s a part of a healthy marriage. Christian Hope is part of cheering on the football team and encouraging our friends who have fallen on hard times. Religion isn’t part of life, religion is the organizational structure of Faith which is THE purpose of all of life as we know it.

As we make our way through Advent, we’re going to have lots of these kinds of little phrases so common to Jewish life. Perhaps we would do well to make them more common to our lives as well. May we be led by the Wisdom of the Holy Spirit in all things!


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


Advent is my favorite Church season in terms of the outward effects. I love the violet vestments. I love Isaiah and Jeremiah. I love the imagery of darkness and light. 

Especially this year, which has been portrayed so constantly in the press as a disaster and a terrible year. (But have we paid attention to how much of that is the fault of the actual events and how much of that is the result of the media and politics working together in a fear campaign that rivals the darkest days of Josef Stalin…) 

Whatever the origins of the current funk in our nation and our world, the season of Advent picks up in the midst of darkness. We’re approaching the longest night of the year, which is always right around Christmas. It’s at this point where the darkness seems to claim victory that the light begins again to outlast the darkness. As we celebrate the entry into this creation of Jesus Christ, the Light of World, we do so at the moment that the night has reached its heights. 

2020 has been a tough year. It seems quite bad and that it may yet become worse… There’s nothing that says that has to stop when a new year begins in five weeks… And yet, those who have toiled in darkness have seen a great light! Whatever may come will not overpower the light of Christ Jesus. Even if we suffer and die, the sting of death itself doesn’t have power over Christ the King. There’s literally nothing the world, the Devil, cable news, or Oprah, herself, can do to harm us so long as we stick near to Jesus.

That’s the beating heart of Advent. The coming of Jesus changes quite literally everything that can change. Jesus upends the power structure in the world down to the atoms and molecules themselves. (After all, the Holy Eucharist breaks literally the rules of time and space). This season frees us to stare down the darkness and to deny it the right to frighten us.

Horror fiction author Stephen King’s fascinating and wildly disturbing novel It imagines a town in which the fears of the residents take physical form in the guise of a demonic clown. The being is almost invulnerable, except to those who are, themselves, without fear. When the demon is mocked and becomes the butt of laughter, he is undone. Advent is a season and an attitude in which we embrace our fears, offer them to the Lord, and find ourselves set free from them. At least it should be!

That’s really why this is my favorite season of the year. It’s also why, I think, so few of us are comfortable celebrating Advent. Most of us have already moved past the purple to the feast of Christmas. Rather than face down anything, we’re eager to skip over the spiritual work and celebrate as if it were already done.

But… If anyone reading this is afraid or anxious or doubting, the very best solution may just be to embrace the violet of Advent rather than the red and gold of Christmas, at least for these next four weeks…

**Happy Advent!**


---

## Upcoming Events

* Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
* Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass *unless otherwise indicated*
* Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p *unless otherwise indicated*


* Dec 4 First Friday Devotions to the Sacred Heart of Jesus - 5:30 p.m.
* Dec 5 First Saturday Devotions to our Blessed Mother - Mass and Holy Hour - 9 a.m.


## For Your Information:

SUNDAY MORNING CATECHISM… Sunday Morning Catechism along with Coffee and Donuts after the 9 a.m Mass. Workbooks for all ages are available in the Hall, free of charge, to anyone who needs one throughout the year. Parents are strongly encouraged to attend these presentations as they will help you, as your child’s teacher, teach your children and, hopefully, increase your own knowledge of our Faith.

ANGEL TREE … what an amazing group of people we have….EVERY ONE of our Angels was taken last weekend from the tree in the Church Hall.  If you had every intention of being a part of the Angel Tree project but did not get a name of someone to obtain a gift for, you can feel free to make a monetary donation to help with the cost of Food Baskets that will be given.  Dana Dukes is giving leadership to our Angel Tree project this year.  If you have questions, please contact her or the church office.

COLLECTION ENVELOPES… Every year since roughly the time that Noah landed the Ark, St. Edward has purchased collection envelopes for our families. These envelopes are customized with an ID number which allows us to track your giving so that we can certify a record for you to deduct your gifts on your taxes. As our world has become increasingly cashless, the envelopes have been less and less necessary. Almost all of our folks contribute by check or online which means that we have all that we need to certify your total contributions. The envelopes cost about \$6 per family-labeled-box per year. It’s not exactly breaking the bank. Still, in the last few years, fewer and fewer families have made use of the envelopes. SO HERE’S WHERE WE NEED YOUR HELP. If your family does not intend to make use of collection envelopes, please let Fr. Ryan or Ann know. Just a quick word is fine. It’ll help us reduce paper waste and save the parish a few dollars to boot. THANK YOU!! --FrRyan

ROSARY GROUP … a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary.  Everyone is invited to join with the group.  If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403

FIRST FRIDAY…DECEMBER 4 ...Holy Hour and Mass....5:30 p.m. ...make a special devotion to the Sacred Heart and attend first Friday devotions for nine consecutive months.

FIRST SATURDAY …DECEMBER 5 … Mass and Holy Hour … 9 a.m. Our Lady of Fatima called for special devotions to be offered on the first Saturday of each month. Father Ryan will offer Mass on the first Saturday of each month in the Church. All are welcomed and encouraged to attend.

SAINTS ALIVE, ANGELS AT WORK… Thanks to our Brunch hosts of last weekend’s Thanksgiving celebration - Skeeter and Blanche Wilks, and Louise Magoun chairs, Leslye Ellerbee, Michael Lancaster, Billy and Ginny Marsh, William and Sharyn Marsh, Hannah McCartney, Sug Regan - the food was great and a good time was had!!!


---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Curley  Mills/Mills & Thompson
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
* Mon		No Mass
* Tue	9:00a	In memory of Sarah Phillips and Marie Phillips Michele/C Phillips
* Wed	9:00a	In memory of May DiTomasso
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of Dale Magoun/G Cox
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Becky Lancaster/family
* Sat	9:00a	Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Barbara Tryon/Mills & Thompson
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla.**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

| Date | Servers | Lector(s) |
| :--: | :--: | :--: |
| 11/28 5:30p | None Scheduled | M Rome |
| 11/29 9:00a | Caroline, Henry, Kathleen | B Sullivan |
| 12/5 5:30p | None Scheduled | L Bullard |
| 12/6 9:00a | Walker, Marsh, and Cooper | A Oliver |
| 12/12 5:30p | None Scheduled | C VanderVieren |
| 12/13 9:00a | Chandler, Mary Katherine, Carter | D Ellerbee | 


---


## Our Return to the Lord

| | |
| :--- | ---: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 | $ 2,111 |
| | |
| October Budget | $ 8,444 |
| October Income | $ 8,181 |
| October Expenses | $ 8,840 |
| November Budget | $10,555 |
| November 22/23 collection  | $  2,259 |
| November income to Date | $  8,375 |
| | |


**Stewardship** We are the servants of God, each with his or her own task.  We will be judged good stewards if, at His coming, He finds us ready and conscientiously pursuing the tasks to which we have been called.

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Sherry Lynn Harris (Nov 29), Frances Kennedy (Nov 29), Delia Trichell (Nov 29), Lance Marsh (Nov 30) 

**Happy Anniversary** Dana and Randy Dukes (Dec 3)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Stella & Fernando Calvo (Keene), Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Karen and Rod Cobb, Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Tommy Dunning, Eli Edgecomb(Gilfoil), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Pops Neumann, Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas , Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones. 
 
*Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed.*
