---
title: The Twenty-Seventh Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2020-10-04T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2020-10-04/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: "As we pass the Autumn equinox and it's associated Ember Days, more and more of our readings will point toward Jesus as the Messiah and King. This Sunday, we're confronted with the challenging Gospel of the unfaithful tenants. The Lord asks us to take measure of our own stewardship of the gifts and duties entrusted to us."
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font


*What will the owner of the vineyard do to those tenants when he comes?*

The Jewish people were very much awaiting a Messiah. It’s easy to read that sentence through modern eyes where we all believe Jesus is coming back, but we tend to think of that as something that will happen a long time from now. The Jews, though, really were constantly looking for the Messiah to appear any day now. After all, there were a dozen men at any one time claiming to be the Messiah or at least a prophet of some sort.

When Jesus puts forward the parable in today’s Gospel, His listeners wouldn’t have heard it as we tend to do - as a kind of theoretical question for the purpose of learning… Rather, Jesus was teaching that HE was the promised Messiah and that the time was nigh. And so the words of the Gospel today are as much of a threat as they are a lesson. And that really is true for us as well.
No one has assurance of salvation. None of us can claim to be sinless. All of us have to one degree or another squandered what the Lord has given and failed to give the Lord the produce that He demands in a timely way. As such, all of us are in some ways, the bad tenants in the Gospel today and all of us are recipients of the threat in the Gospel today.

Good teachers always use both the carrot and the stick, so to speak. It’s essential from time to time to remember that Christianity is an abundant blessing and a demanding duty. The Lord gives, but the Lord also takes away.

We owe the Lord, then, both praise and repentance, both love and fear. Not fear in the sense of a phobia, but fear is the sense that “fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.”

In the scripture, the idea that most people will go to Heaven is directly refuted and so our modern American idea that “unless I really screw up, I’ll go to Heaven” is just plain wrong. Heaven demands repentance and a genuine, positive commitment to the Lord, not just a vague goodness and a lack of serious badness. Hence we need these threats from Jesus as a reminder of what’s at stake and of what we need to do to be ready when our day comes.


## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan


On October 7, 1571, a huge fleet of Ottoman Turks sailed into the waters near Lepanto in Italy. They were yet another Islamic Jihad force sent to invade Christendom as had happened continually for 750 years... They vastly outnumbered the so-called “Holy League” put together by John of Austria at the request of Pope St. Pius V. 

The Pope and the commanders looked out on the gulf and knew they were beaten. What’s more, they had gathered forces from all over Europe and basically wiped out all their reserves. If the Muslim army won this battle, they would basically be able to start a ferry service from Turkey into southern Italy and overrun all of Christian Europe. It was very much a do or die moment for the bulk of Western Civilization. To make matters worse, the weather was lovely which played strongly to the strengths of the Muslims. 

Pope Pius, in a literally Hail Mary situation, prayed that if Our Lady would save the day, he would establish a new feast on the universal Liturgical Calendar in honor of Our Lady under the new title Our Lady of the Holy Rosary. And then he and everyone else who could began to pray the Rosary continuously. 

The battle started and things got worse and worse for the Christians. Suddenly, at midday, the Pope saw a vision in the clouds and the winds suddenly changed direction to favor the Christians. In a shocking and unexplainable shift, the Muslim navy which vastly outnumbered the Christian fleet was routed. The loss was a horrific defeat for the Islamic fleet both in terms of lives  and psychologically. After the Battle at Lepanto, the centuries-long Jihad was basically retired and the era of the Crusades against the Muslims came to an end.

Pope Pius V, true to his word, established that day the title Our Lady of Victory and Our Lady of the Holy Rosary. The feast was immediately popular and spread all over Europe. 

It’s worth remembering just how close we came to being conquered by the Muslim Caliphate and it’s absolutely worth taking note of how unwinnable the battle was. Nowadays, we tend to look back on stories like Lepanto or Constantine on Milvian Bridge as silly little stories used for propaganda but based on little or nothing resembling fact. The strange thing is how often stories like this appear. Here in Louisiana, we have the stories of Our Lady of Prompt Succor who was twice associated with miraculous events which are simply unexplainable. Did Constantine see the Chi Rho in the sky and “in this sign” conquer? Did Pope Pius V see Our Lady of the Rosary in the sky? Did Our Lady of Prompt Succor win the Battle of New Orleans or prevent the great fire from destroying the Ursuline Convent? I suspect that when we enter eternity, we’ll be shocked to learn that almost every serious event in the course of our history was imbued with Angels, Demons and spiritual forces of all sorts and these few events that we call miraculous were just the ones so obviously affected by the supernatural that we were able to recognize it.

Whatever the case, pray the Rosary this Wednesday in honor of Our Lady of Victory!


---

## Upcoming Events

* Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
* Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass *unless otherwise indicated*
* Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p *unless otherwise indicated*


* October 4	Blessing of Livestock & Pets for the Feast of St Francis at 4 p.m. in church parking
* October 10/11Feast of St Edward, the Confessor celebrated at both Masses
* October 11	Potluck Brunch to celebrate St. Edward’s Feast Day following 9 a.m. Mass
* October 16	Quarterly Healing Mass - 5:30 p.m.
* October 19-22 Priests’ Retreat - Father Ryan will be away from the parish and there will not be Mass
* October 27	(MOVED due to Priests’ Retreat)  Parish Council Meeting - Parish Hall - 6 p.m. 


## For Your Information:

SUNDAY MORNING CATECHISM… Sunday Morning Catechism along with Coffee and Donuts after the 9 a.m Mass. Workbooks for all ages are available in the Hall, free of charge, to anyone who needs one throughout the year. Parents are strongly encouraged to attend these presentations as they will help you, as your child’s teacher, teach your children and, hopefully, increase your own knowledge of our Faith.

ALTAR SERVER SCHEDULE… The Altar Server Schedule for Sunday morning Mass can be found on the table at the entrance of the church. If you have a child who needs to have training to be an altar server, please call Father Ryan and arrange for that training.

ALTAR CANDLES… Anyone wishing to provide candles for the altar in honor of their loved one or in prayer for some intention may do so simply by asking. A \$10 donation is recommended, but not required. A list of dates is in the sacristy and a date can be reserved up to one year in advance.

BLESSING OF LIVESTOCK AND PETS…OCTOBER 4... If you have pets that you would like to have blessed as a part of celebrating the Feast of St Francis (Oct 5), please have them at the church parking lot at 4 p.m. on Sunday.  If you have large pets or livestock (ie horses, etc), please make an appointment for Father Ryan to come to your house/barn/pasture.

FEAST OF ST EDWARD THE CONFESSOR CELEBRATION … POTLUCK BRUNCH… check out your recipes and bring your favorite Fall dish for sharing as we celebrate the feast day of our patron saint!

Our thanks to the Third Quarter Social Committee who will provide leadership to this endeavor -  Shannon and Bart Wood and Betty and Kenny Smith, co-chairs, MaryKathryn Book, Kendra and Dave Collins, Connie and Dan Copes, Bruce and Kate Copes, Dana and Randy Dukes, Lance and Stephenie. Marsh, Susie and Terry Murphy, Peggy and Phil Scurria, Beth and Chip Sullivan

EMPOWERING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go online regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.

* “Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse. 

* “Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide”

The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential. 

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

* Sat	5:30p	In memory of  Father Ferre (anni of Ordination)/Mills-Thompson
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
* Mon		NO MASS 
* Tue	9:00a	In memory of Gus Gremshell
* Wed	9:00a	In memory of JCB “Skeezix” Jumonville (death anni)/family
* Thu	9:00a	In memory of May DiTomasso
* Fri	5:30p	In memory of Josephine Hodge/Altar Society
* Sat	9:00a	Traditional Latin Mass-Father Ryan’s Special Intentions
* Sat	5:30p	In memory of Edgar Lancaster (death anni on 12th) and Becky Lancaster/family
* Sun	9:00a	Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

* 10/3 5:30p
	* Servers: None Scheduled
	* Lector: P Wilks
* 10/4 9:00a
	* Servers: C Marsh/H Ellerbee/K Ellerbee
	* Lector: D Ellerbee
* 10/10 5:30p
	* Servers: None Scheduled
	* Lector: A Farlow
* 10/11 9:00a
	* Servers: W Sullivan/M Wood/C Ellerbee
	* Lector: A Keene
* 10/17 5:30p
	* Servers: None Scheduled
	* Lector: M Rome
* 10/18 9:00a
	* Servers: C Sullivan/C Wood/MK Marsh
	* Lector: Youth


---

## Our Return to the Lord

* Weekly Budget FY 2019-20 $2,111
* August Budget $10,555
* August Income $13,411
* August Expenses $8,406
* September Budget $8,444
* September 26/27 Collection $1,655
* September income to Date $10,827

**Stewardship** In the Gospel today, the owner of the vineyard sent messengers to collect his share of the harvest from the tenant farmers; but, there was not a single good steward on the property! God is the owner, we are the tenants.  What sort of stewards are we?

**Second collection** this week is for our Building Fund.

THANK YOU!!...through the generosity of our faith family, the National Catholic Bishops’ Relief Fund collection last weekend totaled $840 weekend!

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Margaret Yerger (Oct 5), Sharyn Marsh (Oct 8), Marsh Wood (Oct 11)

**Happy Anniversary** Sharyn and William Marsh (Oct 5)


## In Our Daily Prayers…

PRAYER FOR HURRICANE SEASON...Our Father in Heaven through the intercession of our Lady of Prompt Succor, spare us during the Hurricane Season from all harm.  Protect us and our homes from all disasters of nature.  Our Lady of Prompt Succor, hasten to help us.  We ask this through Christ our Lord. Amen.

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Susan Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Margaret Fortenberry of Tensas, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Especially all of those impacted by Hurricane Laura,  Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Stella & Fernando Calvo (Keene), Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Karen Cobb, Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Kim Dorbeck (Keene), Eli Edgecomb(Gilfoil), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Meg Gaumnitz (Copes), Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Bo Holloway, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), James H. Lossin (Keene),  Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas , Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Terri Wilson, Todd Windham
Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Blake Sullivan, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones. 
 
*Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed.*
