---
title: 4th Sunday of Lent
date: "2021-03-14T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2021-03-14/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-violet.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Lent"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, so that everyone who believes in him might not perish but might have eternal life.”
It’s dangerous to summarize Christianity… The teachings of Jesus and His actions and the nuanced, subtle applications of those teachings and stories don’t lend themselves to “explain it to me in twenty-five words or less.”_

Still, John 3:16 is a good effort. The centerpiece of Christianity is God’s love which overcomes human sin and makes possible eternal life with Him. Even so, the centerpiece is not the whole story… John 3:16 tells us we “might” have eternal life… But what do we need to do to get from possibility to assurance? What does it mean for God to have a Son at all? What does belief actually mean? Is it purely intellectual or is there a component of putting my belief into action. After all, we all know it’s dangerous to speed or to smoke or to eat butter, but how many of us still do those things?

The problem with summaries is that, by design, they remove important aspects of something for the purpose of convenience. But Jesus didn’t establish His Church on the rock of Simon Peter as a function of convenience. Jesus didn’t command us to set aside our crosses and rush from thing to thing because that would be easier… On the contrary, Jesus commanded that we take up our cross and follow after Him if we want to be saved. He taught us to wait on Him and His Church teaches us that the central purpose of life is to know, love and serve the Lord rather than to settle for summaries.

Even beyond ourselves, summaries are rarely the best way to evangelize and invite others to come to know, love and serve the Lord. If I want to convince someone to watch a TV show or to read a book, I might give them a very brief synopsis, but then I’d share my own experience and how that show or book moved me or caused me to think or got me fired up about something. I’d want to invite them to share my experience!

As we continue Lent, let’s invest whatever time we need and ask the Lord for the courage to share our faith with those we meet along the way!

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

Fr. Sklar sent this message to those who attended our parish mission this past weekend:

> Dear Friends of St. Edward and St. Theresa, I want to thank you for a wonderful time together during your parish mission. Our conversations, talks and meals that we shared were a delight and brought me to prayer in preparation for my return. Your generosity is greatly appreciated and I hope to see you again! Please keep praying for me and know that I am praying for you! -- Fr. Louis Sklar

I want to add my sincere appreciation to all who came and heard Fr. Sklar speak. Parish Missions are an important part of the rhythm of the parish life. While the regularity of hearing one’s pastor’s sermons is a good way to develop a consistent and integrated understanding of the Faith, the unfamiliarity of hearing another priest’s way of thinking and oratorical tools helps us to look at the familiar in new and unexpected ways.

The other big blessing of a Parish Mission is that it affords us a chance to focus on a topic that may or may not fit well into the regular spiritual life of the Church. Fr. Sklar preached for three nights about the Prodigal Son and was available to answer biblical and spiritual questions related to it. No ten minute sermon could ever hope to offer anything quite like that.

I, too, had a pretty great time at my parish mission this week. I was in Fr. Sklar’s parish in Bordelonville. My mission took three stories from daily life and used them to illustrate the Paschal Mystery in which we repent of our sins, find mercy in the Lord and live our lives for Him in the Faith that He established.

While I enjoyed the preaching and visiting, I can say that I was delighted to make my way north on Thursday morning and get back here to all of you. Whatever joy I have as a priest that may come from preaching and teaching pales in comparison to the joy I have from being your pastor and getting to know all of you here.

This past week, I was so very aware that my sermons were directed toward people that I don’t know. I told a story about Bunkie High - a nearby High School - that landed entirely flat. I told another story about food that got a great reaction but then when I referenced that story again later, it fell flat. Once or twice, I saw some people not happy about an example or really confused about a tenet of Faith that we’re very familiar with here. When I preach here, though, I know you well enough to know what is likely to land or not. Sure, I misstep here and there with my preaching, but I love that I look out from the pulpit and I know you and a little about your stories and your Faith.

All in all, missions are good for the parish and they’re good for each of us individually, myself included. I’m so very thankful to Fr. Sklar and to all of you who attended his mission, brought food, asked questions, provided cleanup and made him and everyone feel welcome!

God Reward You!

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Pat Bullard/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
- Mon No Mass
- Tue No Mass as Father is away
- Wed No Mass as Father is away
- Thu 9:00a In memory of May DiTommaso
- Fri 5:30p For a special intention/Magoun
- Sat 9:00a Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Curley Mills/Mills-Thompson
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of the Wilks Family.**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

|    Date    |          Servers          | Lector(s)  |
| :--------: | :-----------------------: | :--------: |
| 3/13 5:30p |      None Scheduled       | MA Gilfoil |
| 3/14 9:00a |  Preston, Marsh, Evelyn   | D Ellerbee |
| 3/20 5:30p |      None Scheduled       |  A Farlow  |
| 3/21 9:00a | Caroline, Henry, Kathleen |   Youth    |
| 3/27 5:30p |      None Scheduled       |   M Rome   |
| 3/28 9:00a |   Walker, Marsh, Cooper   |  S Marsh   |

---

## Upcoming Events

- Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
- Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass _unless otherwise indicated_
- Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p _unless otherwise indicated_
- March 16 CANCELLED … Pastoral Council Meeting
- March 19 Lenten Supper following 5:30 Lenten Devotions and Mass
- March 21 Parish St Joseph Social...First Quarter Potluck following Sunday Mass
- April 3 Easter Egg Hunt on Church Hall grounds … more info to follow… Stephenie Marsh will give leadership to the effort.

## For Your Information:

ORDINATION OF THOMAS KENNEDY...on Saturday, May 22 at St. Francis Xavier Cathedral, Alexandria. Many of you will remember Thomas as he spent a summer with us while a Seminarian at Notre Dame Seminary in New Orleans.

ROSARY GROUP… a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary. Everyone is invited to join with the group. If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403.

LENTEN DEVOTIONS… As has become our usual plan, on each Friday in Lent, Fr. Ryan will hear confessions at 5pm and offer the Stations of the Cross at 5:30p followed by Holy Mass. We will have our last special Lenten Supper on Mar 19 accompanied by a spiritual film. All are welcome to attend immediately following Stations and Mass.

FAST AND ABSTINENCE Lent is a season of penance. Ash Wednesday and Good Friday are days of Fasting which means that adult Catholics should plan to abstain from meat and dishes made with meat and should limit their eating to a single meal for the day. If medical conditions or strenuous work require taking extra nourishment, those meals should be small in size and also free of meat. Each Friday of Lent is a day of Abstinence from meat, but not necessarily a day of fasting. Further, each adult Catholic should plan to undertake a personal penance to be kept for the forty days of Lent.

ST JOSEPH CELEBRATION… our Spring Social that had to be cancelled due to the ice storm is to coincide with the Solemnity of St. Joseph. All are welcome to attend a potluck social on Sunday, March 21, after the 9 a.m. Mass. The leadership for the event will be the Spring Social committee and Louise Magoun will help to implement the St. Joseph theme. Dig out your favorite potluck recipe to share with others and we hope to see you there!

EASTER EGG HUNT … will be on Saturday, April 3, 2021 on the grounds of the church hall. Stephenie Marsh will give leadership to the event. If you would like to help, let her know. All can contribute hard-boiled, dyed eggs or plastic eggs with treats. Please avoid anything with peanut butter as we have some very allergic children in our group of youngsters!

LILIES and FLOWERS FOR EASTER...Envelopes can be found on the table at the entrance of church if you would like to have Easter Lilies in memory of a loved one or in honor of someone. You may drop your envelope in the collection basket.

---

**Stewardship** All that we have and all that we are comes from the Lord. “We are truly his handiwork,” says St Paul in the second reading, “created in Christ Jesus to lead the life of good deeds which God prepared for us in advance.”

**SECOND COLLECTION for CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES** to provide food to the hungry, support displaced refugees, and bring Christ’s love and mercy to vulnerable people...

## Our Return to the Lord

|                          |         |
| :----------------------- | ------: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2020-21 | $ 2,111 |
| February Budget          | $ 8,444 |
| February Income          | $ 9,122 |
| February Expenses        | $ 7,631 |
| March Budget             | $ 8,444 |
| March 6/7 collection     | $ 2,491 |
| March income to Date     | $ 2,491 |

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Shannon Wood (March 15), Mary Trichell (March 16), Alyssa Oliver (March 17), Angel Farlow (March 20)

**Happy Anniversary** Alyce and C.W. Keene (March 21)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

_Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed._

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Harper Bedgood, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Marie and Norman Ernst, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Charlotte Marsh and Lance and Stephenie, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Marie Cedotal
Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Todd Beene, Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Stella & Fernando Calvo (Keene), Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Karen and Rod Cobb, Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Tommy Dunning, Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.
