---
title: The Epiphany of the Lord
date: "2021-01-03T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2021-01-03/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-white.jpg"
description: "Epiphany celebrates the arrival of the Wise Men and the revelation of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles"
tags:
  - "Christmas"
  - "Epiphany"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“...Behold, magi from the east arrived in Jerusalem...”_

Despite a constant barrage of modern entertainers (a class of people notoriously inept at… knowing things…) claiming that the events of the Nativity Story are all invented, the one science that ancient people like the Jews, the Medes and the Persians, devoted serious attention to was astronomy. Dates were very carefully charted because the stars were the only efficient way to track the coming and going of seasons and to predict the severity of climate and weather patterns.

King Herod was able to call upon dozens of astronomers at the drop of a hat when the Magi arrived in Jerusalem. Whether or not Herod’s guys recognized the patterns is a question of creativity and spiritual docility, but whether or not they knew the day, the season and the position of the constellations is in no doubt whatsoever.

The patterns in the sky at the time of the Birth of Jesus are relatively well known. They are described in excellent detail in the 12th Chapter of the Book of Revelation. Jupiter was “in Virgo” just as Leo was aligning with Mercury and Venus to form a “crown” of twelve visible “stars” over the “virgin” which had in it it’s “womb” the largest “star” (Jupiter) in the sky. What’s more, around the birth of Jesus, the Sun and Moon lined up nicely with the Pregnant Virgin to do everything but form an arrow for the Persian Magi to follow.

Beginning in the 15th century, the arrogance of our human race amplified dramatically and European philosophers of the era insisted on redefining every idea they could, including “history,” “science,” and even “knowledge.” It was at that time that Ancient peoples who weren’t Greek began to be considered stupid and simplistic. Because those stupid and simplistic people wrote the Bible, the Bible ceased to be considered Historically “reliable” and was downgraded from “most important text ever written” to “very popular fairy tale.”

As we begin this new year and as we celebrate this Christmas Season, let us ask the Lord to sanctify us by “the renewal of our minds” and let us ask the wise men, Caspar, Melchior and Bathlazar, to pray for us to see what they saw!

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

**Our Lady of Prompt Succor, Hasten to our Help!**

The State of Louisiana has a special patron saint separate from Our National Patron. The title “Our Lady of Prompt Succor” is a French devotion from the 1700s which translates nicely as Our Lady of Hasty Help or Our Lady of Quick Assistance.

The devotion comes to us via the Ursuline Nuns who set up shop on State Street in New Orleans in 1727. In 1812, a great fire raged across old New Orleans and the sisters’ convent and school were directly in its path. The sisters were ordered to flee but Sr. Anthony Delatre rushed to find a small statue of Our Lady of Prompt Succor and the Prioress, Mother Michael, began to pray the now-famous invocation, “Our Lady of Prompt Succor, we are lost unless you hasten to our aid!” The fire immediately changed direction and the convent and school were completely unharmed despite utter devastation around them.

Only three years later, General Andrew Jackson was facing a British force more than twice the size of his 6,000 man platoon on the plains of Chalmette in what is now called the Battle of New Orleans. The battle seemed hopeless and, aware of the miracle of the fire, New Orleanians began to gather at the convent to ask Our Lady for aid once again. As the battle raged, Msgr. William Dubourg rushed to the convent to offer Mass on the Altar where the miraculous image had been permanently installed. Cannon fire could be heard from the chapel. The Prioress of the convent, Mother Ste. Marie Olivier de Vezin, made a vow to have a Mass of Thanksgiving sung annually should the American forces win. At the very moment of communion, a courier ran into the chapel to inform all those present that the British had been defeated after a heavy and unexpected fog caused most of their troops to wander into a swamp. An annual Mass of Thanksgiving has been held January 8 ever since. I was able to attend several of them during my time in seminary.

On September, 21 1851, Pope St. Pius IX authorized the devotion and celebration of the Feast of Our Lady of Prompt Succor and the singing of the yearly Mass of Thanksgiving on January 8. On June 13, 1928, Pope Pius XI declared the Blessed Virgin Mary, under the title of Our Lady of Prompt Succor as the Patroness of Louisiana after receiving a formal request from the Archbishop of New Orleans (Shaw) and the ; Bishops of Alexandria (Van de Ven) and Lafayette (Jeanmard).

Devotion to Our Lady of Prompt Succor has been a fixture in New Orleans ever since. Church in her honor exist in the Archdiocese and in our own diocese in Alexandria and in Mansura.

In a neat little side note, I was ordained as a Deacon on January 8, 2005 which was the 190th anniversary of the Miracle of the Battle of New Orleans. On January 8, 1935, a few hours due North of New Orleans, in Tupelo, Mississippi, Elvis Presley was born on this auspicious feast…

So no matter how you look at it, it’s a day worth celebrating!

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 9:00a In memory of Sally Higdon/Magoun
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
- Mon No Public Mass
- Tues 9:00a In memory of Rosa Gremshell
- Wed 9:00a For all USA Service Men & Women - living and deceased
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Dale Magoun/G Cox
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Becky Lancaster/family
- No Public Mass
- Sat 5:30p For the special intentions of C.W. Keene/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

---

## Upcoming Events

- Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
- Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass _unless otherwise indicated_
- Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p _unless otherwise indicated_
-

## For Your Information:

**Fr. Ryan was exposed to a COVID-positive person and has been instructed to quarantine until Saturday, January 9. He is entirely symptom free. All Masses will be live-streamed and are closed to the public until 5:30p on Saturday, January 9. Apologies!**

**The Church is open if you'd like to come and pray!**

EPIPHANY CHALK will be blessed and distributed next weekend.

THE BURNING OF THE GREENS is cancelled due to Father's quantine and the unauspicious timing of Epiphany. Apologies!

---

**Stewardship** The three wise men who came from the East to pay homage to the infant Jesus brought Him rich gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh as part of their worship. What gifts have I brought to this celebration to offer to the newborn Savior?

## Our Return to the Lord

|                           |          |
| :------------------------ | -------: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2020-21  | \$ 2,111 |
| November Budget           | \$10,555 |
| November Income           |  \$9,828 |
| November Expenses         |  \$8,959 |
| December Budget           |  \$8,444 |
| December 26/27 collection |  \$5,729 |
| December income to Date   | \$14,634 |

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Birthday…Beth Sullivan (Jan 4), Edward Yerger (Jan 7), C. W. Keene (Jan 9), Matilda Johnson (Jan 10)

**Happy Anniversary** Abby and Darryl Ellerbee (Jan 5), Alyssa and Teddy Oliver (Jan 10)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

_Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed._

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Harper Bedgood, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Marie and Norman Ernst, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Marie Cedotal
Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Todd Beene, Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Stella & Fernando Calvo (Keene), Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Karen and Rod Cobb, Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Tommy Dunning, Eli Edgecomb(Gilfoil), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Pops Neumann, Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.
