---
title: 12th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2021-06-20T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2021-06-20/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“Who is this whom even wind and sea obey?”_

In the ancient world, the forces of nature were absolute! No one and nothing could have any effect at all on floods, droughts, famines, heat, cold, or storms. They were seen as the hand of God bringing life or destruction according to some knowledge or wisdom far beyond us. Even today, tornados, hurricanes, tsunamis, typhoons, and earthquakes are often called the “hand of God” or the “finger of God” by laypeople and scientists alike.

Ultimately, this is about our human limits. Modern technology can give us the illusion of power and control, but when the storms come or the A\C goes out, we rediscover our own smallness in the grand scheme of things.

This humility is an incredibly good thing! It’s an essential part of holiness and, while it may seem counterintuitive, it’s
an essential part of happiness. Illusions are deadly and the more we remind ourselves that God is God and we are not, the more aligned to Truth we will be.

The clear lesson for the Apostles in the Gospel today is that Jesus is God… He is master of the very elements that start off the Bible where God divided the sea and calmed the winds. The lessons for us are all associated with the other side of that ancient lesson. Jesus is God… But ONLY Jesus is God (in union with the Most Holy Trinity, of course). Modern man struggles to be humble because so much of our world is self-deceit. We lie to ourselves constantly about what matters and what doesn’t. Our wealth allows us to cover up the massive moral failings that we overlook every day. Our comfort allows us to de-prioritize eternal life and the hard work of Christian living it requires.

The bubble we tend to live in allows us to ignore everything that we don’t want to be bothered with… As a simple example, I-20 is the number one corridor for human trafficking in the United States… Every day, enslaved people are passing our little town! It’s horrifying. Maybe we can do something about it, maybe we can’t. But how often do we think about it? How often do we pray for them… There are, after all, more slaves living in the US today than there were at the time of the Civil War…
The lesson today is honest self-awareness...

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

This Thursday, June 24th, is the Birthday of St. John the Baptist. The technical title of the day is “The Solemnity of the Nativity of St. John the Baptist.” St. John was, of course, the voice crying out in the desert and he was the light that shone in the darkness which pointed people to the true light: Jesus Christ.

Traditionally, St. John’s birthday was celebrated by lighting a huge bonfire. The tradition was to build up a huge pile of wood and then bless the unlit fire using this prayer:

_Lord God, almighty Father, the light that never fails and the source of all light, sanctify this new fire, and grant that after the darkness of this life we may come unsullied to you who are light eternal; through Christ our Lord. Amen._

Then, this hymn was sung:

> O for your spirit, holy John, to chasten
> Lips sin-polluted, fettered tongues to loosen;
> So by your children might your deeds of wonder
> Meetly be chanted.
>
> Lo! a swift herald, from the skies descending,
> Bears to your father promise of your greatness;
> How he shall name you, what your future story,
> Duly revealing.
>
> Scarcely believing message so transcendent,
> Him for a season power of speech forsaketh,
> Till, at your wondrous birth, again returneth,
> Voice to the voiceless.
>
> You, in your mother's womb all darkly cradled,
> Knew your great Monarch, biding in His chamber,
> Whence the two parents, through their offspring's merits,
> Mysteries uttered.
>
> Praise to the Father, to the Son begotten,
> And to the Spirit, equal power possessing,
> One God whose glory, through the lapse of ages,
> Ever resounding.

Then a brief prayer of praise:

_God, who by reason of the birth of blessed John have made this day praiseworthy, give your people the grace of spiritual joy, and keep the hearts of your faithful fixed on the way that leads to everlasting salvation; through Christ our Lord._

Then, a party… Food, music, dancing, etc. Plenty of Protestants, especially in Germany, looked at feasts like this and accused Catholics of worshipping the devil. It’s possible - we don’t really know - that the Puritan idea that witches dance around bonfires may have come from this celebration which dates back at least 600 years.

I think it’s worth noting these traditions even if we don’t keep them in the US. For the record, I tried to throw this particular party once… We said the prayers and sang the hymn, but it was a Louisiana summer night and everyone agreed that lighting a bonfire in the summer was good to do once and only once.

These traditions are good things. They aren’t necessarily game-changers, but we as human beings thrive on rituals. Some of them are simple, like a goodnight kiss between spouses, and some of them are complex, like Thanksgiving. But these rituals and patterns are good for us. Psychologists would describe them as necessary for mental health. Christians would describe them as sanctifying. The vocabulary isn’t as important as the reality that we need patterns of life, rhythms and rituals and structure. The spiritual masters recommend a structure that is anchored by prayer and then by work and then by regular duties. Many psychologists would recommend writing down that daily schedule in bullet points and trying to keep to it while not becoming a slave to it.

Whatever the case, the schedule and the feast day are good food for thought.

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Thomas Trichell/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
- Mon No Mass
- Tue 9:00a In memory of Rosa Gremshell
- Wed 9:00a In memory of Josephine Hodge/Weaver
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Kirby and Paul Fortenberry/family
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Becky Lancaster/family
- Sat 9:00a Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Peyton Trichell/Lancaster
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Meg Keene Thomas and C.W. Keene as requested by Mary Anne Gilfoil**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

|    Date    |            Servers            |      Lector(s)      |
| :--------: | :---------------------------: | :-----------------: |
| 6/19 5:30p |        None Scheduled         |     MA Gilfoil      |
| 6/20 9:00a |    Henry and MaryKatherine    | Chandler & Kathleen |
| 6/26 5:30p |        None Scheduled         |      A Farlow       |
| 6/27 9:00a | Chandler, Kathleen, and Maura |     D Ellerbee      |
| 7/3 5:30p  |        None Scheduled         |      L Bullard      |
| 7/4 9:00a  |      Preston and Evelyn       |     M Lancaster     |

---

## Upcoming Events

- Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
- Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass _unless otherwise indicated_
- Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p _unless otherwise indicated_
- June 20 Father’s Day
- June 27 Potluck Picnic to celebrate an early July 4th...following 9 a.m. Mass. ALL are invited to attend. The Second Quarter Social Committee will open the doors and clean up following the event. See notes elsewhere in the bulletin.

## For Your Information:

ROSARY GROUP… a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary. Everyone is invited to join with the group. If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403.

FATHER’S DAY… JUNE 20. We invite all the dads of our community to join us for a special blessing of Fathers at each of our weekend Masses!

SECOND QUARTER SOCIAL … Mark your calendar for JUNE 27 and celebrate an early 4th of July with a Potluck Picnic following Sunday Mass.
The Committee for Second Quarter (April, May, June) - Libby Bullard (Co-chair), Elizabeth Crothers*, Angel Farlow, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, MaryAnne Gilfoil, Terry and Andy Hall, Isabell Hernandez, Ann Keene, Alyce and C.W. Keene, Frances Kennedy,* Bobby Reynolds, Delia Trichell, and Cathy VanderVieren (Co-chair).

---

**Stewardship** St Paul reminds us in the second reading that Christ died “so that those who live might live no longer for themselves.” What we give to and do for others, we give to and do for Jesus!

Next Week...Second Collection...Peter’s Pence Collection to provide support for the special works of our Holy Father, Pope Francis

## Our Return to the Lord

|                          |         |
| :----------------------- | ------: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2020-21 | $ 2,111 |
| May Budget               | $10,555 |
| May Income               | $12,111 |
| May Expenses             | $ 8,028 |
| June Budget              | $ 8,444 |
| June 12/13 Collection    | $ 1,266 |
| June income to Date      | $ 5,512 |

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Cindy Howington, Margo Corulla (June 26)

**Happy Anniversary** Beth and Chip Sullivan (June 19)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

_Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed._

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Harper Bedgood, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Charlotte Marsh and Lance and Stephenie, Brittany and Brian McFall, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Kathryn Wood Allsopp (D Wood), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Jerry Bullard, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Jared and Ainslie Oliver Duff, Tommy Dunning, Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Cameron and Katie Murphy Murray, Sue Perrilloux (D Wood), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Frances Robinson, Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), George and Katie Magoun Williams, Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Chris Hall (USMC), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.
