---
title: 15th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2021-07-11T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2021-07-11/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavens...”_

All of us have seen on TV the way in which Islamic people greet each other with a little dialogue (_As-salamu alaykum -- Wa alaikum assalaam_). It’s a simple greeting that brings together many aspects of their faith. Many Catholics did this until the mid-1960s with the phrase _Laudetur Iesuschristus_ which means ‘_Praised be Jesus Christ_.’ A fellow Catholic would respond ‘_Semper Laudetur_’ which means ‘_may He always be praised_.” Franciscans say ‘_Pax et Bonum_’ or, in Italian, ‘_Pace e Bene_’ which means '_Peace and God’s Blessing_.'

The idea of a ritual greeting isn’t really limited to religion either. When the Telephone was being developed, Alexander Graham Bell wanted to use the phrase ‘_Ahoy_’ as the way to answer a call. Thankfully, ‘_Hello_’ became the norm. Even now, with Caller ID, people seem to prefer “_Hello_” to “_Hey Rebecca_.”

St. Paul began all of his letters and probably most of his sermons with a similar kind of ritual greeting. The exact wording changed but the idea was the same and we see it in our second reading today from Ephesians. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Scripture scholars have endless comments on each of these little greetings as they tend to reveal something about the Church and the city to whom they are addressed.

The varied details matter less than the fact that Paul uses his greetings as a way of framing himself. I almost always start my public prayers with thanksgiving to God for His goodness.” Pope St. John Paul II almost always began his writings and frequently began his speeches with a direct quotation from the Bible. St. Paul liked to use one of the myriad Jewish ‘Berakhot’ (“Blessings”) which Jews were encouraged to say throughout the day as various situations arose. St. Paul was, after all, a highly trained Rabbi and Scripture scholar!

As we read scripture, it’s worth paying attention to the way in which Books, Letters, etc begin as they often reveal a lot about the author and his or her intentions and purpose.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

This Thursday, the 15th of July, is the feast day of Saint Bonaventure who is the greatest of the Franciscan intellectuals. When we think of truly brilliant saints who made massive contributions to the intellectual wealth of humanity, the top of the list is St. Thomas Aquinas. He was probably on par with Plato, Aristotle, Confucius, and Albert Einstein in terms of intellect and contribution.

St. Bonaventure was also incredible. But he had the misfortune of living at the same time that Aquinas did. He also had the misfortune of being just a bit older and not having access to the “lost” texts of Aristotle which Thomas Aquinas analysed so brilliantly. Even so, it’s a bit like taking the stage with Whitney Houston, Celine Dion and Luciano Pavarotti… It doesn’t matter how good you are, you’re not going to shine on that stage.

Even so, St. Bonaventure was an important and noteworthy saint. He received his name directly from Francis of Assisi. As a young boy, Bonaventure was sickly and when Francis was travelling through his village, the saint prayed over the boy and received a vision of his ‘career’ as a religious brother. Francis exclaimed “O Buona ventura!” which means something like “O blessed destiny” or “O blessed fortune.”

Bonaventure later joined the Franciscans and went to Paris to study where he and St. Thomas Aquinas met. They both had many saintly friends including King-Saint Louis IX. After finishing his studies, Bonaventure wrote a detailed biography of St. Francis and was promptly elected head of the entire Franciscan Order. He served in that role for many years until several Pope tried to

make him a bishop. He finally consented to being named the Cardinal Bishop of Albino just outside of Rome. He was an important theologian and advisor to Kings and Popes and piles of other people. Whereas St. Thomas Aquinas was unquestionably smarter and made a larger impact on the total intellectual history of humanity, Bonaventure was unquestionably more influential and had a far greater human impact in his day.

He wrote this wonderful prayer to the Holy Spirit:

> _Lord Jesus,
> as God's Spirit came down and rested upon you, May the same Spirit rest on us,
> Bestowing his sevenfold gifts.
> First, grant us the gift of understanding,
> By which your precepts may enlighten our minds.
> Second, grant us counsel, by which we may follow in your footsteps on the path of righteousness.
> Third, grant us courage, by which we may ward off the enemy's attacks.
> Fourth, grant us knowledge, by which we can distinguish good from evil.
> Fifth, grant us piety, by which we may acquire compassionate hearts.
> Sixth, grant us fear, by which we may draw back from evil and submit to what is good.
> Seventh, grant us wisdom, that we may taste fully the life-giving sweetness of your love.
> Amen!_

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Jack Ellerbee/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
- Mon No Mass
- Tue 9:00a For a special Magoun family intention
- Wed 9:00a In memory of Rosa Gremshell
- Thurs 9:00a in memory of Josephine Hodge/Weaver
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Becky Lancaster/family
- Sat 9:00a Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Payton Trichell/P Gilfoil
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

|    Date    |            Servers            |   Lector(s)    |
| :--------: | :---------------------------: | :------------: |
| 7/10 5:30p |        None Scheduled         |    A Farlow    |
| 7/11 9:00a |          Volunteers           |   D Ellerbee   |
| 7/17 5:30p |        None Scheduled         |    P Wilks     |
| 7/18 9:00a |    Henry and MaryKatherine    |     Youth      |
| 7/24 5:30p |        None Scheduled         | C Vandervieren |
| 7/25 9:00a | Chandler, Kathleen, and Maura |    S Marsh     |

---

## Upcoming Events

- Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
- Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass _unless otherwise indicated_
- Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p _unless otherwise indicated_
- July 20 Pastoral Council meeting 6 p.m. Parish Hall
- July 27 Town Hall meeting with Masoleum company representative - 5 p.m. - Parish Hall

## For Your Information:

WELCOME to the NEUROTH, REYNOLDS, and TRYON FAMILIES who are having their Annual Family Reunion this weekend at our Church Hall! Oh, the stories about Tallulah and growing up that they can tell!!!!

ROSARY GROUP… a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary. Everyone is invited to join with the group. If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403.

PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, JULY 20, at 6:00 p.m in the Church Hall. All members are requested to make a special effort to attend. Parishioners are encouraged to attend and contribute to the discussions.

TOWN HALL MEETING...with Mausoleum Company representative, Paul Raymond, will be held on Tuesday, July 27, at 5 p.m. in the Church Hall. If you or your family is even remotely interested in this project, you are encouraged to attend to learn more about the concept.

---

**Stewardship** Today's readings are about being chosen and sent. The prophet Amos was chosen by the Lord and sent to use his talents for the people of God. The Gospel recounts the story of the sending of the twelve disciples; and in the second reading, St Paul reminds us that we, too, are chosen. For what have I been chosen? To whom have I been sent?

## Our Return to the Lord

|                          |         |
| :----------------------- | ------: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2020-21 | $ 2,111 |
| June Budget              | $ 8,444 |
| June Income              | $ 8,878 |
| June Expenses            | $ 8,608 |
| July Budget              | $ 8,444 |
| July Collection          | $ 2,665 |
| July income to Date      | $ 2,665 |

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Chip Sullivan (July 11), Aidan Collins (July 12), Sue Rome (July 16)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

_Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed._

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Harper Bedgood, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Charlotte Marsh and Lance and Stephenie, Brittany and Brian McFall, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Kathryn Wood Allsopp (D Wood), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Jared and Ainslie Oliver Duff, Tommy Dunning, Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Cameron and Katie Murphy Murray, Artis Peace (Book), Sue Perrilloux (D Wood), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Frances Robinson, Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), George and Katie Magoun Williams, Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Chris Hall (USMC), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.
