---
title: 16th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2021-07-18T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2021-07-18/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: true
---

## From The Font

“People were coming and going in great numbers, and they had no opportunity even to eat. So they went off in the boat by themselves to a deserted place.“

St. Paul says that he “must be all things to all men.” It’s worth noting, though, that Jesus, Himself, left behind people in need from time to time. He left people hungry and He left people unhealed. He did these things on purpose! Jesus did not come to fix the world and make it into a Hallmark movie. Rather, getting to Heaven requires taking up our crosses and following after Him!

As with Jesus, so with the Church. It is not the mission of the Church or the clergy or any Christian to fix all the problems of the world! The official mission of the Catholic Church is “The Salvation of Souls.” If opening a soup kitchen aids that, then it’s a good thing. If it doesn’t, then the soup kitchen is a waste! If clean and tidy Church grounds help get people into Heaven, then it’s worth the time and energy. If not, then they’re a waste! If a longer sermon or a hymn or a painting or a donut social or a weekly bulletin or a missallette or a smoking censor full of incense or a cadre of altar servers work toward the salvation of souls, then they are good things. Otherwise, they are not. Surely, there have been good and fruitful debates over these kinds of things in the Church from the beginning… Even rest and relaxation have their place in the daily work of Christianity.

The more we orient our thinking toward this very clear mission, the easier it is to understand why the Church does what she does. Why spend money on chalices? Why argue which way the priest should face? Why run charities or religious orders? Why follow a Code of Canon Law? Why have Mass when a simple sermon and some hymns might get more people into the Church? Why preach about difficult or sad topics when levity might get more people into Church?

The answer to every one of these questions boils down to the greater question of getting people into Heaven and the Salvation of Souls.
Whenever Jesus does something that seems peculiar to us, the reason almost always lies in this central mission of the Church.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

Today, in 1870, the First Vatican Council officially decreed the dogma of Papal Infallibility… But what does that mean?

There’s a wonderful scene in Evelyn Waugh’s seminal novel Brideshead Revisited where the young Cordelia Flyte asks her sister’s fiance about Papal Infallibility. He’s confused when she asks what would happen if the Pope walked outside into a sunny afternoon and declared that it was, in fact, raining. Rex, the potential convert, scrambles to answer and says that “there must be some kind of spiritual rain, then…”

Papal Infallibility is actually very, very limited. The doctrine follows from Matthew 16:18 in which Jesus promises Peter that the gates of hell will not prevail against the Church founded upon him. In 1870, the Bishops at the First Vatican Council specified that when the Pope speaks directly, specifically, and DEFINITIVELY on a matter of Faith or Morals, He cannot err. That means that in order for the doctrine to apply and thus to have any effect, the Pope needs to be teaching something which is specifically theological or moral. That teaching must be specific and it must be definitive. AND the Pope must specify that he is teaching under the auspices of this Charism.

In practice, Popes teach infallibly all the time. So do priests and bishops when they repeat a specific dogmatic or moral teaching of the Church that has been a teaching of the Church for a long time. If I say that Mary was ever Virgin, I’m teaching infallibly. It’s fun!!

Also, though, in practice, “extraordinary” infallible teachings of the Pope are very, very rare. In 1950, Pope Pius XII proclaimed as dogma the Assumption of Our Lady. In 1993, Pope St. John Paul II declared direct abortion to be always sinful and in 1994, He declared that the Church has no power to ordain women to the priesthood. Since 1870, these three declarations are “the big three.” There may be a few other very specific items, but in 150 years, the doctrine of Papal Infallibility has only been put to use a handful of times.

The reason that’s worth knowing is that many Catholics and non-Catholics tend to think that we basically worship the Pope. We ought to respect him, of course, but we don’t worship him at all. Popes can be wrong. Sometimes Popes write or speak about matters they don’t understand. I love Pope Benedict, but his writings on Ecology and Environmentalism were factually wrong time and time again. That doesn’t mean that the principles which underlie the thought are wrong! Rather, it means that nowadays, Popes (and priests, too) are expected to be engaged with concerns and issues for which we have little or no training or aptitude and when that happens, we have to rely upon those that do! The moral and religious lessons we can handle, but there are details beyond the lessons and Popes can and do make mistakes in their regard.

So, yes, the pope can make mistakes. He can misspeak. He can be wrong. This means we have to be willing to pray for him all the more!!

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Payton Trichell/P Gilfoil
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
- Mon No Mass
- Tue 9:00a In memory of Gus Gremshell
- Wed 9:00a In memory of Jim Jumonville (birth)/family
- Thurs 9:00a in memory of Father Ferre/Mills and Thompson
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Jackson Jumonville (birth)/family
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Agnes “Poche” and Bill Adams/Regan
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Cathy VanderVieren**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

|    Date    |            Servers            |   Lector(s)    |
| :--------: | :---------------------------: | :------------: |
| 7/17 5:30p |        None Scheduled         |    P Wilks     |
| 7/18 9:00a |    Henry and MaryKatherine    |     Youth      |
| 7/24 5:30p |        None Scheduled         | C Vandervieren |
| 7/25 9:00a | Chandler, Kathleen, and Maura |    S Marsh     |
| 7/31 5:30p |        None Scheduled         |     M Rome     |
| 8/1 9:00a  |      Preston and Evelyn       |    A Oliver    |

---

## Upcoming Events

- Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
- Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass _unless otherwise indicated_
- Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p _unless otherwise indicated_
- July 20 Pastoral Council meeting 6 p.m. Parish Hall
- July 27 Town Hall meeting with Mausoleum company representative - 5 p.m. - Parish Hall

## For Your Information:

ROSARY GROUP… a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary. Everyone is invited to join with the group. If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403.

PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, JULY 20, at 6:00 p.m in the Church Hall. All members are requested to make a special effort to attend. Parishioners are encouraged to attend and contribute to the discussions.

TOWN HALL MEETING...with Mausoleum Company representative, Paul Raymond, will be held on Tuesday, July 27, at 5 p.m. in the Church Hall. If you or your family is even remotely interested in this project, you are encouraged to attend to learn more about the concept.

---

**Stewardship** In today’s Gospel, Jesus had planned to slip away from the crowds for a few moments of peace and a little rest. When He saw the people gathered, however, He put His needs aside to meet the needs of others Sometimes, as good stewards, we are called to do the same.

## Our Return to the Lord

|                            |        |
| :------------------------- | -----: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2021-2022 | $2,111 |
| June Budget                | $8,444 |
| June Income                | $8,878 |
| June Expenses              | $8,608 |
| July Budget                | $8,444 |
| July 10/11 Collection      | $2,264 |
| July Income To Date        | $4,929 |

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Caroline Marsh (July 19), Kendra Collins (July 21), Preston Collins (July 22)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

_Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed._

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Harper Bedgood, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Charlotte Marsh and Lance and Stephenie, Brittany and Brian McFall, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Kathryn Wood Allsopp (D Wood), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Jared and Ainslie Oliver Duff, Tommy Dunning, Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Cameron and Katie Murphy Murray, Sue Perrilloux (D Wood), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Frances Robinson, Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), George and Katie Magoun Williams, Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Chris Hall (USMC), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Maddie Oliver, Bailey Rome, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.
