---
title: 4th Sunday of Easter
date: "2021-04-25T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2021-04-25/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-white.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Easter"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“A good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. A hired man, who is not a shepherd… sees a wolf coming and leaves the sheep and runs away… This is because he works for pay and has no concern for the sheep.”_

The early Church had a few very clearly defined orders of responsibility. Bishops were the head of the Church in some locale. They were meant to stay put and to be like the Good Shepherd who is a kind of father to the flock. Until very recently, the bishop was not meant to be reassigned to another diocese because every move made him more like a hired hand who didn’t feel that kind of permanent connection to the people of the local Church.

Under the Bishops, the order of presbyters (aka “priests”) and the order of deacons, functioned a little differently in each place. Some local Churches (which came to be known as “Dioceses”) were spread out with dozens of Church buildings over distances that might take two or three days to walk. Other local Churches might be confined to a single city or town. In a large diocese, the bishop would appoint presbyters to preside at the Mass and even over Baptisms in Churches whereas in smaller or more centralized dioceses, the presbyters might operate more like modern day permanent deacons do - reading the Gospel and occasionally preaching sermons. The deacons were almost always directly charged with the care of the poor, the orphans and the finances of the Church.

Nowadays, most of our interaction with the Church is with our local pastor who is almost always a priest. The modern innovation of moving pastors every 5-10 years has robbed us of that sense of our pastor function like a Good Shepherd, though. If we know that Father will be moving in a few years, it’s hard to really come to know him and it’s hard to engage our families with him because he is temporary - a hired hand who may be 100% committed in his own heart, but who could be moved at any moment… It’s a genuine problem and one that we all ought to be bringing to the Lord in prayer.

Putting aside whatever structural changes the Church needs, we must make it our personal commitment to pray for all our clergy - bishops, priests, deacons and those in training - that they commit themselves to being Good Shepherds!

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

This Saturday is the Feast of the Patron of Laborers and of Farmers - St. Joseph the Worker.

Pope St. Pius X wrote this prayer for the intercession of St. Joseph the worker:

> **Glorious St. Joseph, model of all who are devoted to labor, obtain for me the grace to work in the spirit of penance in expiation of my many sins; to work conscientiously by placing love of duty above my inclinations; to gratefully and joyously deem it an honor to employ and to develop by labor the gifts I have received from God, to work methodically, peacefully, and in moderation and patience, without ever shrinking from it through weariness or difficulty to work; above all, with purity of intention and unselfishness, having unceasingly before my eyes death and the account I have to render of time lost, talents unused, good not done, and vain complacency in success, so baneful to the work of God. All for Jesus, all for Mary, all to imitate thee, O patriarch St. Joseph! This shall be my motto for life and eternity. Amen.**

The other major patron of farmers is St. Isidore the Farmer, a spanish layman from Madrid who just about drove his wife crazy with his constant charity and generosity. His feast day is two weeks away on the 15th of May.
The traditional prayer to St. Isidore is:

> **Dear St. Isidore, we are told that your devotion to the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass was so great that you would rise before it was light in order to be able to attend Mass before beginning your work in the fields. Obtain for us, we pray you, some of that loving devotion to the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass.
> There it is that the fruits of our farm labor, bread and wine, are brought and offered to God by the priest.
> Then, in the consecration, Christ Himself, Body and Blood, Soul and Divinity, becomes present on our altars under the appearances of this same bread and wine.
> And in what was the altar bread, He comes to us to be the very food of our souls.
> If we deeply realize the value and beauty of Holy Mass, we will be very happy to attend as often as we possibly can.
> Help us to understand that in the Mass we offer ourselves to God with Christ by the hands of the priest. There we can bring to God all that we do, and offer it to Him in union with His Holy Sacrifice. The oftener we do this now, the happier we shall be hereafter. Good Saint Isidore, bless us and our labors, that we may someday reap the reward of good works with you in heaven. Amen.**

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Michael Mills/Mills-Thompson
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
- Mon No Mass
- Tue 9:00a In memory of Beverly Lancaster/family
- Wed 9:00a In memory of Jason Jumonville/family
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Rosa Gremshell
- Fri 5:30p In memory of George Kampa/Fr Ryan
- Sat 9:00a Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Payton Trichell/Lancaster
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla**

**ALTAR FLOWERS are given this week in honor of Ann Keene from her children, grandchildren, and great grand children**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

|    Date    |         Servers         |  Lector(s)  |
| :--------: | :---------------------: | :---------: |
| 4/24 5:30p |     None Scheduled      |  L Bullard  |
| 4/25 9:00a |  Walker, Marsh, Cooper  |  K Collins  |
| 5/1 5:30p  |     None Scheduled      | MA Gilfoil  |
| 5/2 9:00a  | Carter, Chandler, Marsh | J Howington |
| 5/8 5:30p  |     None Scheduled      |   M Rome    |
| 5/9 9:00a  |   Preston and Evelyn    |   S Marsh   |

---

## Upcoming Events

- April 28 Wednesday Evening Catechism 6 p.m. in Church Hall
- May 1 First Saturday Devotions to our Blessed Mother - Mass and Holy Hour - 9 a.m.
- May 2 First holy Communion at 9 a.m. Mass
- Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
- Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass _unless otherwise indicated_
- Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p _unless otherwise indicated_

## For Your Information:

ROSARY GROUP… a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary. Everyone is invited to join with the group. If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403.

WEDNESDAY EVENING CATECHISM... April 28...In the Church Hall at 6 p.m. Father will answer questions after each talk. Guests are welcome!

FIRST SATURDAY … May 1 … Mass and Holy Hour … 9 a.m. Our Lady of Fatima called for special devotions to be offered on the first Saturday of each month. Father Ryan will offer Mass on the first Saturday of each month in the Church. All are welcomed and encouraged to attend.

FIRST COMMUNION … at 9 a.m. Mass on Sunday, May 2, 2021 for ANNIE MARSH, daughter of Stephenie and Lance Marsh, and LAWTON THOMAS, son of Meg and Paul Thomas. A reception will be held following Mass and all are invited to join in the Hall to congratulate our young people.

MASS INTENTION REQUESTS… If you would like to have a Mass or Masses offered for a Special Intention (in Memory, in Honor, a birthday, anniversary, etc) you should contact the Church Office with the date you would like as well as the Intention. The usual Mass stipend offering is $5 per Mass. What a nice gift to give to the person who “has everything”!!!

FUND RAISING WITH GROCERY TICKETS... If you shop at Doug’s and do not already do so, you may want to save your grocery tickets and place them in the bag on the table at the entrance to church. The church will be given 1% of the total of combined purchases (excluding milk, cigarettes, and alcohol). Our thanks to the ANGEL who collects the tickets and prepares them to submit to Doug’s

---

**Stewardship** To be good stewards, we must be good shepherds, willing to lay down our lives for those committed to our care, not mere hired hands who run off, “leaving the sheep to be snatched and scattered by the wolf.”

**Second Collection** Catholic Home Missions Appeal...40% of Dioceses in the US need help to fund essential pastoral work needed in their communities for faith formation and sacramental needs. Your help is appreciated.

## Our Return to the Lord

|                          |         |
| :----------------------- | ------: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2020-21 | $ 2,111 |
| March Budget             | $ 8,444 |
| March Income             | $10,871 |
| March Expenses           | $ 8,820 |
| April Budget             | $ 8,444 |
| April 17/18 collection   | $ 2,155 |
| April income to Date     | $ 8,797 |

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Norman Ernst II (April 27), Ginny Marsh (April 28)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

_Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed._

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Harper Bedgood, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Charlotte Marsh and Lance and Stephenie, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Todd Beene, Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Tommy Dunning, Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Justin Rittenhouse and Arielle Lewis (Keene), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Katie and Cameron Murray, Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Frances Robinson, Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.
