---
title: 4th Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2021-01-31T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2021-01-31/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“Let us not again hear the voice of the LORD, our God”_

The number one question \ complaint about religion in general and Christianity in particular is “why, oh why, does God keep Himself hidden?” Common sense says that if the Lord is real and wants to communicate with us, He should do so through some direct and even supernatural means…

If the Scriptures are to be believed, though, the Lord has tried that. In fact, a cursory glance at the numerous miracles happening around us even today would seem to confirm that the Lord is speaking to us in varied ways both direct and indirect, supernatural and human.

Today’s Old Testament reading comes from the Book of Deuteronomy. Moses is addressing yet another complaint from the Chosen People. At Mount Horeb, the people witnessed a number of supernatural events and they complained that the Lord was being too supernatural. So they asked the Lord to send them an ordinary person as their leader because all the supernatural stuff was too much to take on a daily basis. And so the Lord does what they ask. And what follows in a couple of thousand years of human leaders of various types and varying qualities. The Lord sent them prophets and wise men… That didn’t really do it. He sent them “judges” which we can think of as a kind of warrior-bishop figure. He sent them kings. He sent them high priests and theologians and experts. The Lord tried a lot of ways to answer the prayer of the Jewish people.

Modern people, who are about as un-pleasable as the ancient Jews, dismiss all of this and just repeat their complaint that the Lord isn’t real because He doesn’t speak to us in the mode they deem best.

But it’s worth remembering that the Lord has tried throughout history to speak to us. From His strolls with Adam in the Garden to Jesus Christ walking among us, the Lord is here and He is inviting us to draw near to Him… There’s nothing that separates us from the love of God except our own foibles. A little honest prayer and some quiet time with the Lord (try the Rosary if you’re not sure where to start) will go a long way and may just change your life.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

Already February is upon us! Traditionally, February is a time for special devotion to the Holy Family of Jesus, Mary and Joseph. The Feast of the Holy Family closely follows Christmas, but that’s a relatively new invention. From the fourth and Fifth centuries until the 1960s, the big feast for the Holy Family was February Second. That’s the double feast of the Presentation of Jesus in the Temple and the Purification of Our Lady.

In Jewish Tradition, the Circumcision of a male child took place on the eight day after his birth. That typically took place at the local synagogue or at home because the temple rules about contact with human blood forbade almost everyone associated with childbirth from entering the temple for forty days. And so Jesus was a little over a month old when Joseph and Mary, fresh off their sort-of-quarantine, went to the Temple to offer the sacrifice of two pigeons and to formally name their baby. They had two unexpected encounters as they were leaving the temple. One was the wise man Simeon who prophesied that Jesus would be the salvation of the World and a light for all the nations. He also said that Jesus was destined for the rise and fall of many in Israel and he told Mary that a sword would pierce her own heart. Then, they ran into an even more respected and admired wise person. The prophetess Anna basically confirmed the words of Simeon.

Because of the words of Simeon that refer to Jesus as a light for all the nations and because of the specific rituals involved with a woman fresh from the birth of a child re-entering the temple, February Second was traditionally the day for blessing candles to be used in the Church. Traditionally, the Second of February was called “candlemas” in honor of the especially beautiful prayers and chants prescribed for it just as Christmas (Christ-Mass) was especially beloved for the three Masses prescribed on December 25.

It’s really hard to overstate how much of our tradition was arrogantly and unceremoniously gutted in the 1960s. Prayers and chants and traditions that had been basically unchanged and which had been essential points of continuity for more than a thousand years were thrown away like a failed experiment and replaced with nothing at all. And now, less than a full generation later, they are completely forgotten. Is the chaos in the Church really that surprising? We can see all around us the fruit of failing to study history!

For our part, the best we can do is to learn as much as we can about our own story and re-embrace as much as we can of that which was abandoned by the hubris of our predecessors.

Please feel free to bring candles to be blessed with you to Mass on Tuesday or, if you prefer, to drop off a labeled box\bag\package of candles at the rectory on Sunday or Monday to be blessed Tuesday morning at Mass. I can certainly bless candles at other times, but these feasts and celebrations matter.

Whatever your choices candle-wise, February is the right time to come together as a family and say a few prayers to the Holy Family for your own family!

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Paul Voran, Jr.
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
- Mon No Public Mass
- Tues 9:00a In memory of C. L. Keene and Inez and C.B. DeMoss
- Wed 9:00a In memory of Rosa Gremshell
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Dale Magoun/G Cox
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Alan Horton/Fr Ryan
- Sat 9:00a Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Curley Mills/Mills-Thompson
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of C.L. Keene and Inez and C.B. DeMoss**.

## Assistants at Holy Mass

|    Date    |             Servers              |  Lector(s)  |
| :--------: | :------------------------------: | :---------: |
| 1/30 5:30p |          None Scheduled          | MA Gilfoil  |
| 1/31 9:00a |      Walker, Marsh, Cooper       | J Howington |
| 2/6 5:30p  |          None Scheduled          |   M Rome    |
| 2/7 9:00a  | Carter, Chandler, Mary Katherine |   S Marsh   |
| 2/13 5:30p |          None Scheduled          | M A Gilfoil |
| 2/14 9:00a |      Preston, Marsh, Evelyn      |  A Oliver   |

---

## Upcoming Events

- Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
- Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass _unless otherwise indicated_
- Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p _unless otherwise indicated_
- February 5 First Friday Devotions to the Sacred Heart of Jesus - 5:30 p.m.
- February 6 First Saturday Devotions to our Blessed Mother - Mass and Holy Hour - 9 a.m
- February 7 Blessing of Throats following Saturday Mass and following Sunday Mass
- February 14 Potluck Brunch following Sunday Mass
- February 19 Quarterly Mass with Anointing of the Sick

## For Your Information:

ROSARY GROUP … a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary. Everyone is invited to join with the group. If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403.

ALTAR SOCIETY DUES PAYABLE FOR 2021…All ladies of the faith family of St. Edward are considered members of the Altar Society which is responsible for the needs of the altar such as candles, wine, hosts, altar cloths and linens and decorations. It is now time to pay your $10 dues for 2021 and there are envelopes at the entrance of the church for your convenience. You may return your envelope in the collection basket or to the church office.

FIRST QUARTER SOCIAL … POTLUCK BRUNCH following Mass on Sunday, February 14, 2021. The First Quarter (Jan, Feb, March) group consists of Margo Corulla and Darryl and Abby Ellerbee (co-chairs), Norman and Marie Ernst, Katherine Ernst Bedgood, Brian Johnson, Sidney and Mary Jane Johnson, Robbie and Tori Kivett, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Billy and Courtney Nadeau, Teddy and Alyssa Oliver, Mike and Sue Rome, Jason Trichell, Mary Trichell, Levi Washington

FIRST FRIDAY…FEBRUARY 5 ...Holy Hour and Mass....5:30 p.m. ...make a special devotion to the Sacred Heart and attend first Friday devotions for nine consecutive months.

FIRST SATURDAY …FEBRUARY 6 … Mass and Holy Hour … 9 a.m. Our Lady of Fatima called for special devotions to be offered on the first Saturday of each month. All are welcomed and encouraged to attend.

SPECIAL STUDY GROUP… Mrs Chrlotte Booth will sponsor a special six-week study group in preparation for the Solemn Consecration to the Sacred Heart of Jesus through the Immaculate Heart of Mary according to the instruction of St. Louis de Montfort. The study group is intensive and only has room for 5-6 people. Those interested should speak to Mrs. Booth directly. The group will begin meeting on Ash Wednesday evening and the date of the Solemn Consecration will be March 25, the Feast of the Annunciation.

MEN’S PROGRAM… The Knights of Columbus in Vicksburg will sponsor the “Into the Breach” program directed toward men. The program is truly exceptional and is based on remarkable spiritual writing from Bp. Thomas Olmstead. This particular version of the program will meet via Zoom on Thursdays beginning after Ash Wednesday. The program is free and Fr. Ryan has materials for those interested. Questions can be addressed to Mr. Charles Hahn of the Vicksburg KCs.

BLESSING OF THROATS…is ordinarily celebrated on February 3, the Feast of St Blaise of Sebaste in Armenia. We will have this blessing at the end of Masses next weekend (Feb 6 & 7).

---

**Stewardship** Moses told the people, “A prophet like me will the Lord, your God, raise up for you from among your own kinsmen.” God still provides among His people the gifts and talents necessary to continue the work of His Church. What gifts are yours to share?

## Our Return to the Lord

|                          |         |
| :----------------------- | ------: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2020-21 |  $2,111 |
| December Budget          |  $8,444 |
| December Income          | $18,109 |
| December Expenses        |  $9,405 |
| January Budget           | $10,555 |
| January 23/24 collection |  $2,408 |
| January income to Date   |  $9,449 |

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Brennan McFall (Feb 1), Hazel Bedgood (Feb 2, 2016), Evelyn Grace Kivett (Feb 2), Dorothy Dyer (Feb 3), Susan Gilfoil (Feb 3), Blanche Wilks (Feb 5),Stephenie E. Marsh (Feb 6)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

_Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed._

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Harper Bedgood, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Marie and Norman Ernst, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Charlotte Marsh and Lance and Stephenie, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood
Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Todd Beene, Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Stella & Fernando Calvo (Keene), Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Karen and Rod Cobb, Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Tommy Dunning, Eli Edgecomb(Gilfoil), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.
