---
title: 2nd Sunday in Ordinary Time
date: "2021-01-17T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2021-01-17/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-green.jpg"
description: "This first Ordinary Time of 2021 will only last for about a month, but the Lord's messages are essential for living the Christian Faith."
tags:
  - "Ordinary Time"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“Here I am...”_

Perhaps the greatest single misconception in Christian history is the idea that Christianity is for good people… or holy people… or people who have themselves all together… There are dozens of verses all over the Bible reminding us that the Christian Faith isn’t a club for good people, it’s a clinic for real people. Most modern condemnations of Christianity blame the Church for letting sinners be a part of It.

In reality, the Lord invites us to say with Samuel (in today’s first reading), “here I am.” I have to come to the Lord as I am and I have to approach the Lord as He is… Knowing the Lord and knowing about the Lord are incredibly important parts of the Christian Faith… After all, too many people recreate God as what they want Him to be… But knowing ourselves matters too. Being honest with ourselves and approaching the Lord in that honesty is essential. Various Christian writers have used different words to express this need, but it’s the same need. Humility, honesty, integrity, genuineness, and others all really mean that when we go to the Lord in our prayers, we’re honest with Him about our intentions and our passions and our fears and our failings and our doubts and our sureties and our self-delusions and our hearts as they are rather than as they should be.

There is surely a place in Faith for us to aspire to be better than we naturally are. The Lord calls us to supernatural virtue and He gives us Grace and the assistance of the Holy Spirit to improve and to grow. But even then, when we come before the Lord, our attitude has to come back to these simple words: “here I am.”

The Lord doesn’t judge us for our failings any more than we judge a four year old for saying “pasketti!” But he can’t help us if we act like that same four year old with a face covered in chocolate lying about getting into the cupcakes. The Lord’s work in our hearts is only limited by the limits we put upon Him. He can’t forgive what I won’t admit. He can’t heal what I refuse to acknowledge is broken. He can’t give me Grace if I’m pretending to be something I’m not.
All good prayer begins not with a strategy or a set of skills, but with the simple, humble disposition of someone who says “here I am.”

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

I wrote a few weeks ago about Our Lady of Prompt Succor, patroness of Louisiana. It’s hard to overstate the importance of Our Lady in our daily spiritual lives, especially in light of the events of the past month or so. More and more it seems that Our Lady’s words in 1917 apply to us today. “The errors of Russia will sweep the world, but then, my Immaculate Heart with Triumph.”

I was speaking about these things with one of our adjunct parishioners from Vicksburg when she suggested offering a preparation class for the very powerful “Consecration to Jesus through the Heart of Mary” as envisaged by St. Louis de Montfort. A modified version of the Consecration was offered under the title “30 Days to Morning Glory” several years ago here in the parish. Mrs. Charlotte Booth has a good bit of experience with both programs and in light of the success of the Rosary Group that meets on Mondays, she believes the time is ripe to offer a class on this excellent devotion. I agree and so, during Lent, those interested (probably a maximum of 6-8) will be able to participate in an intensive preparation for the so-called “de Montfort Consecration.”

The rest of us won’t be left out in the cold, we’ll still have our usual array of parish catechesis. I would ask that all of us pray for those who opt to join the study group as it will be both challenging and a real benefit to our parish at large. The spiritual gain of any one of us is a real boon to the whole of us just as the spiritual detriment of one of us does real damage to all of us. Those interested can speak to me or Charlotte in the coming weeks.

In a similar vein, Mr. Charles Hahn, member of the Knights of Columbus is sponsoring a series for men called “Into the Breach.” Into the Breach is an AMAZING program derived from an also amazing pastoral letter written by Bishop Thomas Olmsted of Phoenix, AZ. Bp. Olmsted wrote to his people about a crisis of masculinity. He said that men were the constant victims of insult and derision by the media and academia and others and that those years of being berated had left the Church without the husbands and fathers that she needs.

Bp. Olmsted’s letter was a game changer in his diocese and since then, the Knights of Columbus have put together an excellent program helping Christian men to appreciate both the blessings and the responsibilities of being a Christian man.

Mr. Hahn would like to provide the materials we need to experience the program here at St. Edward. The cost is negligible and the resources are available, it’s just a matter of having enough interested men to justify getting together.

Any man - parishioner or not, Catholic or not, may participate and may do so at no cost. Please let me know at your convenience and we will try to get some dates and times set up. The program is 12 parts and usually plays out over 3 to 4 months with one meeting night per week… as it is our program, though, it can be whatever we need it to be.

Please know that I really like this program and I want to strongly encourage our men to consider taking part!

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Eva Reynolds/Bullard
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
- Mon No Public Mass
- Tues 9:00a In memory of May DiTomasso
- Wed 9:00a In memory of Marie Phillips Michele/C Phillips
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Josephine Hodge/G Cox
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Becky Lancaster/family
- Sat 9:00a Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Pat Bullard/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

|    Date    |          Servers          |  Lector(s)  |
| :--------: | :-----------------------: | :---------: |
| 1/16 5:30p |      None Scheduled       |  L Bullard  |
| 1/17 9:00a |  Preston, Marsh, Evelyn   | D Ellerbee  |
| 1/23 5:30p |      None Scheduled       |  A Farlow   |
| 1/24 9:00a | Caroline, Henry, Kathleen |    Youth    |
| 1/30 5:30p |      None Scheduled       | MA Gilfoil  |
| 1/31 9:00a |   Walker, Marsh, Cooper   | J Howington |

---

## Upcoming Events

- Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
- Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass _unless otherwise indicated_
- Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p _unless otherwise indicated_
- January 19 Pastoral Council Meeting – Parish Hall – 6 p.m.
- January 20 Wednesday Evening Catechism - Parish Hall - 6 p.m.
- January 24 Youth Mass
- February 14 Potluck Brunch following Sunday Mass

## For Your Information:

ROSARY GROUP … a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary. Everyone is invited to join with the group. If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403.

ALTAR CANDLES… Anyone wishing to provide candles for the altar in honor of their loved one or in prayer for some intention may do so simply by asking. A small donation is recommended, but not required. A list of dates is in the sacristy and a date can be reserved up to one year in advance.

FUND RAISING WITH GROCERY TICKETS... If you shop at Doug’s and do not already do so, you may want to save your grocery tickets and place them in the bag on the table at the entrance to church. The church will be given 1% of the total of combined purchases (excluding milk, cigarettes, and alcohol). Our thanks to the ANGEL who collects the tickets and prepares them to submit to Doug’s.

ALTAR SOCIETY DUES PAYABLE FOR 2021…All ladies of the faith family of St. Edward are considered members of the Altar Society which is responsible for the needs of the altar such as candles, wine, hosts, altar cloths and linens and decorations. It is now time to pay your \$10 dues for 2021 and there are envelopes at the entrance of the church for your convenience. You may return your envelope in the collection basket or to the church office.

PASTORAL COUNCIL..will hold its regular meeting on TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2021 at 6:00 p.m in the Church Center. Appointed members of the Council: MaryAnne Gilfoil, Louise Magoun, Ginny Marsh, Beth Sullivan, Levi Washington, and Blanche Wilks. Appointed as Trustees by the Bishop are Michael Lancaster and Cathy VanderVieren. Appointed by the pastor to serve as Finance Council Chair is Darryl Ellerbee.All members are requested to make a special effort to attend. Parishioners are encouraged to attend and contribute to the discussions.

WEDNESDAY NIGHT CATECHISM… this week at 6 p.m. in the Church Hall. Our topic will be “The Virtue of Hope”.

FIRST QUARTER SOCIAL … POTLUCK BRUNCH following Mass on Sunday, February 14, 2021. The First Quarter (Jan, Feb, March) group consists of Margo Corulla and Darryl and Abby Ellerbee (co-chairs), Norman and Marie Ernst, Katherine Ernst Bedgood, Brian Johnson, Sidney and Mary Jane Johnson, Robbie and Tori Kivett, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Billy and Courtney Nadeau, Teddy and Alyssa Oliver, Mike and Sue Rome, Jason Trichell, Mary Trichell, Levi Washington

SAINTS ALIVE-ANGELS AT WORK...Our church was beautiful for the Christmas Season and thanks go out to those who made that happen. The Chrismon Tree with it artful ornaments is always beautiful as was the exquisite Nativity Scene. Beautiful red poinsettias add such a spot of color to our beautiful altar. Thanks to the ANGELS for the hours spent in this endeavour!

We have received two more “thank you’s” from the caregivers of the Angels who were recipients of our Angel Tree. They asked that our faith family be aware of how much our gifts meant to those who are in their care.

---

**Stewardship** In today’s first reading, we hear Samuel eagerly respond, “Here I am!” each time the Lord calls him. May we, too, be listening for the call of God in our lives and be ready to say like the Psalmist, “Here am I, Lord; I come to do your will.”

## Our Return to the Lord

|                          |          |
| :----------------------- | -------: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2020-21 |  \$2,111 |
| December Budget          |  \$8,444 |
| December Income          | \$18,109 |
| December Expenses        |  \$9,405 |
| January Budget           | \$10,555 |
| January 9/10 collection  |  \$2,877 |
| January income to Date   |  \$4,402 |

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Renee Wood (Jan 18), Mary Jane Johnson (Jan 22), Brice Wood (Jan 22)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

_Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed._

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Harper Bedgood, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Marie and Norman Ernst, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Todd Beene, Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Stella & Fernando Calvo (Keene), Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Karen and Rod Cobb, Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Tommy Dunning, Eli Edgecomb(Gilfoil), Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.
