---
title: 1st Sunday of Lent
date: "2021-02-21T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2021-02-21/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-violet.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Lent"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“The Spirit drove Jesus out into the desert, and he remained in the desert for forty days, tempted by Satan.”_

We have to think of the events in the life of Jesus as a kind of parallel to the events of the Old Testament, especially the sins committed against God in the Old Testament. Jesus dies on a Cross (a tree) which is a kind of symbolic undoing of the sin committed by Adam and Eve eating the fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. Jesus is without a home in contrast to the Jews having been given a land of milk and honey for which they were not thankful. While it’s not immediately obvious, from the earliest days of the Christian Faith, saints have written about this parallel which exists between the events in the life of Jesus and the various events of the Old Testament.

Jesus’ 40 days in the desert is quite easy to see, though, as mirroring events from the Old Testament. The journey into the desert calls to mind the first days of the Jews when they were nomads in the desert in the time of Abraham. It also calls to mind the Exodus from Egypt when the Jews wandered in the desert for 40 years until the Lord gave them the land that we now call Israel.

The temptations which Jesus faces also evoke plenty of Bible stories. The temptation to turn a rock into food calls to mind the water at Horeb as well as the Manna in the Desert and even the famine which first caused the Jews to move into Egypt during the time of Joseph and his colorful, but not exactly technicolor, overcoat. The call to worship falsely evokes Queen Jezebel and the prophet Elijah but also the events of the Book of Job and the Book of Joel.

We have to keep in mind when we’re thinking about Scripture that nothing in the life of Jesus was accidental. Even more than that, the events which were written down in the Gospels were carefully chosen in order to evangelize specific peoples. If St. Mark notes that Jesus was in the desert for forty days, especially if it is the only detail that St. Mark gives us, we ought to consider that detail as important and meaningful. Even if the significance isn’t easy to understand, it has significance all the same. That’s why it’s so important to look to the saints and to ask the Lord for the gift of understanding.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

What a bizarre time we live in!
Last year, we started Lent as always... We had our ashes on Feb 26 and we had a pretty good turnout. The parish was doing well. Attendance and collections were both trending generally upward and we were enthusiastic about the new property purchase and what we might do with it. I visited the ladies jail here in Tallulah on Mar 3 and I drove to Lake Providence on Mar 9 & 10 to offer a parish mission there on the topic of “The Seven Last Words of Jesus.” I remember chuckling because Fr. Joseph keeps all of his oils in the same cabinet: Olive, Vegetable and 20-50W Low Viscosity! Ha!

The next week I was slated to drive to Bordelonville to offer the parish mission there, but on Mar 16, Archbishop Aymond instructed us to cancel all public Masses and to enter what was supposed to be a two week quarantine. At first, my only real concern was whether we’d be finished with this nonsense before Palm Sunday. Then, as it stretched further, I offered all of Holy Week alone. And then most of Easter...

In many ways, we didn’t really finish Lent. Lent 2020 is, in some ways, still going on. I think it’s incredibly important that we didn’t get to start Lent 2021 properly either. I believe very strongly that these two Lenten seasons are connected spiritually in a way that none of us can fully comprehend. I believe that we find ourselves in the midst of significant change in Western Civilization. I believe it’s a fundamentally good change, but I also believe that the coming years are going to be marked by a kind of penitential spirituality.

Spiritual Historians, especially the truly great Dr. Christopher Dawson, have noticed that basically all of the major changes in world history that have been positive have been preceded by times of upheaval that can be described as penitential.

The evils of the late Roman Empire, for example, were followed by the Monastic era which made way for the High Middle Ages - a time of great advancement in human history. There are lots of examples both great and small, but it would seem that the events of human history parallel the human soul in that positive change begins with repentance and penance.

I believe, and I say “I” because I’m not referencing any official Church teaching, but I believe that we’re entering into a time of repentance for the sins of the last few decades and indeed the last few hundred years. I believe that Our Lady appeared at Fatima precisely to prepare us for this moment and I believe that while none of us are huge fans of penance for its own sake, all of us here at St. Edward know the value of honesty and the necessity of working to make things right as a good thing in and of itself.

Either way, Lent is here - whether it’s just six weeks without sweets or it’s an epochal change in human history - and so let us commit ourselves to prayer, penance and works of mercy and trust the Lord to bring us through this time of preparation to the joy of Easter!

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Father Ferre/Mills-Thompson
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
- Mon No Public Mass
- Tues 9:00a In memory of Rosa Gremshell
- Wed 9:00a In memory of Josephine Hodge/Weaver
- Thu 9:00a For the special intentions of A.P. and Pat Guizerix
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Dale Magoun/G Cox
- Sat 9:00a Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Sally Higdon/Magoun
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Margo Corulla**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

|    Date    |             Servers             |     Lector(s)     |
| :--------: | :-----------------------------: | :---------------: |
| 2/20 5:30p |         None Scheduled          |     A Farlow      |
| 2/21 9:00a |    Caroline, Henry, Kathleen    | Carter and Walker |
| 2/27 5:30p |         None Scheduled          |      P Wilks      |
| 2/28 9:00a |      Walker, Marsh, Cooper      |    B Sullivan     |
| 3/6 5:30p  |         None Scheduled          |     L Bullard     |
| 3/7 9:00a  | Carter, Chandler, MaryKatherine |    D Ellerbee     |

---

## Upcoming Events

- Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
- Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass _unless otherwise indicated_
- Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p _unless otherwise indicated_
-

## For Your Information:

LENTEN DEVOTIONS... As has become our usual plan, on each Friday in Lent, Fr. Ryan will hear confessions at 5pm and offer the Stations of the Cross at 5:30p followed by Holy Mass. We will have our special Lenten Suppers on Mar 5 and Mar 19 accompanied by a spiritual film. All are welcome to attend immediately following Stations and Mass.

FAST AND ABSTINENCE Lent is a season of penance. Ash Wednesday and Good Friday are days of Fasting which means that adult Catholics should plan to abstain from meat and dishes made with meat and should limit their eating to a single meal for the day. If medical conditions or strenuous work require taking extra nourishment, those meals should be small in size and also free of meat. Each Friday of Lent is a day of Abstinence from meat, but not necessarily a day of fasting. Further, each adult Catholic should plan to undertake a personal penance to be kept for the forty days of Lent.

ROSARY GROUP... a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary. Everyone is invited to join with the group. If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403.

SPECIAL STUDY GROUP... Mrs Charlotte Booth is sponsoring a special six-week study group in preparation for the Solemn Consecration to the Sacred Heart of Jesus through the Immaculate Heart of Mary according to the instruction of St. Louis de Montfort. The study group is intensive and only has room for 5-6 people. Those interested should speak to Mrs. Booth directly. The group began meeting on Ash Wednesday evening and the date of the Solemn Consecration will be March 25, the Feast of the Annunciation.

MEN’S PROGRAM... The Knights of Columbus in Vicksburg will sponsor the “Into the Breach” program directed toward men. The program is truly exceptional and is based on remarkable spiritual writing from Bp. Thomas Olmstead. This particular version of the program will meet via Zoom on Thursdays beginning after Ash Wednesday. The program is free and Fr. Ryan has materials for those interested. Questions can be addressed to Mr. Charles Hahn of the Vicksburg KCs.

MASS INTENTION REQUESTS... If you would like to have a Mass or Masses offered for a Special Intention (in Memory, in Honor, a birthday, anniversary, etc) you should contact the Church Office with the date you would like as well as the Intention. The usual Mass stipend offering is $5 per Mass. What a nice gift to give to the person who “has everything”!!!

ALTAR CANDLES... Anyone wishing to provide candles for the altar in honor of their loved one or in prayer for some intention may do so simply by asking. A small donation is recommended, but not required. A list of dates is in the sacristy and a date can be reserved up to one year in advance.

FUNDRAISING WITH GROCERY TICKETS... If you shop at Doug’s and do not already do so, you may want to save your grocery tickets and place them in the bag on the table at the entrance to church. The church will be given 1% of the total of combined purchases (excluding milk, cigarettes, and alcohol). Our thanks to the ANGEL who collects the tickets and prepares them to submit to Doug’s

---

**Stewardship** The waters of Baptism make us part of the new covenant in Christ. But the bishops’ pastoral letter on stewardship reminds us that ”there is a fundamental obligation arising from the sacrament of baptism...that people place their gifts, their resources-- their selves --at God’s service in and through the Church.”

**Special Collection** Black and Indian Missions. This collection exists to help build the Church and preach the Gospel of Jesus among the African American, Native American, and Alaska Native people of God across the United States.

## Our Return to the Lord

|                           |         |
| :------------------------ | ------: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2020-21  |  $2,111 |
| January Budget            | $10,555 |
| January Income            | $11,817 |
| January Expenses          |  $9,252 |
| February Budget           |  $8,444 |
| February 13/14 collection |    $588 |
| February income to Date   |  $4,911 |

---

## In Our Daily Prayers...

_Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed._

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Harper Bedgood, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Marie and Norman Ernst, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Charlotte Marsh and Lance and Stephenie, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence, Marie Cedotal

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Todd Beene, Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Georgie Gilfoil Breard, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Stella & Fernando Calvo (Keene), Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Karen and Rod Cobb, Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Tommy Dunning, Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Terry Lynn Jones (Howington), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Brice Wood

Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.
