---
title: 5th Sunday of Easter
date: "2021-05-02T12:00:00.000Z"
slug: "/posts/bulletin-2021-05-02/"
socialImage: "/media/bulletin-white.jpg"
description: ""
tags:
  - "Easter"
category: "Parish Bulletin"
template: "post"
draft: false
---

## From The Font

_“I am the true vine, and my Father is the vine grower.”_

Fewer images are so theologically consistent and so comprehensible as today’s Gospel. The Lord is the source and we are the recipients of that source. Whatever blossoms from our efforts are ultimately blossoms from the source.

The modern misconception among many Christians is that God designed and created man and then put him in this world and left him to his own devices. The misconception continues that God’s love is such that whatever we do here has little to no real effect upon what happens after our time in this world. In some way, this misconception is akin to a child placing a pet hamster in a well-prepared cage and leaving it to run around as it might like. Or, perhaps even more accurate, the misconception is closer to the image of a school-aged robotics club building dozens of little autonomous robots that interact according to whatever programs they like until the bell rings and the class is dismissed...

In reality, the Lord doesn’t just create us and leave us to our own devices. He establishes and maintains us. The very atoms of our bodies only hold together because the Lord wills it so. (There’s actually some fascinating quantum physics that can be interpreted in just this way!)
None of us are really on our own and none of us are self-sustaining. We exist because the Lord wills that we exist. Anything we do that can be called “good” is simply a blossom from the vine which is just a passageway for the nutrients that come from the source which is God. If we nourish and care for those passageways and those blossoms, they will develop and if we don’t, they will wither.

The analogy does begin to break down at some point, but it remains an incredibly accessible and easy to comprehend image of the way in which the creative love of God works.

It’s always good to remember, though, that metaphors and analogies are helpers but that they can never really reveal the depths of the Lord’s own Divine Nature.

## Thoughts from Fr. Ryan

This weekend, I’m going to start my sermon with a word about the work that’s been going on in the parish hall. One of the things that I did over there was to rehang, in a place of prominence, a small plaque commemorating the hard work of the ladies who spent countless hours in that kitchen catering meals for profit so that our little Church could stay open… It’s easy to forget how much time and energy went into keeping St. Edward going and how close it really was to closing. That effort didn’t come out of nowhere… Similar efforts weren’t made to keep Fred’s in business or to assure that Tallulah will always have a Chevron station. Those ladies (and the families who supported them) did that for love of God, love of their fellow Catholics, and because they felt that what we do here matters. And it wasn’t just Nita and Josephine and the ladies named on that plaque, it’s been a thousand people who helped out in a thousand ways. It’s incredible to me that the priests of the parish get so much attention when so much of the long, hard work has been done in the parish hall and in family kitchens.

It speaks volumes about the life and faith of this Church that so many people over so many years have been willing to spend their time and give from their pantries to make it possible for the community to gather on Sunday morning and hear the Word of God proclaimed and witness the Body of Christ consecrated. When the COVID lockdown began, I remember feeling very self-conscious about accepting donations and gifts when I was unable to provide the most essential purpose for which those gifts were being given! Thankfully, a parishioner with whom I had shared this concern told me, in no uncertain terms, to use the God-given nerd talents that I had and to set up a live-stream so that people could hear the Word and at least see the Mass celebrated in the parish they and their families had worked so hard to maintain. I balked at first because other parishes with more resources were providing live-streams of Mass at a higher quality than I was able to provide. This parishioner, though, pointed out that regardless of quality, people wanted to see Mass at THEIR parish… Thankfully, St. Edward was able to do just that and, after we came back to Church, so many people told me that seeing their own Church was an important part of feeling connected during those difficult times…

This week’s Gospel about the vine and the branches feels like such an appropriate time to think about how people connected to us worked so hard to make sure that the Faith they had received would be passed on to future generations no just in a generic way, but in THIS Church and in THIS community.

It’s also wonderfully appropriate that we think on these things as we celebrate First Holy Communion for young people both local and remote. One of our little ones lives here and one has his origins here even if he lives at a distance. Both of them owe their opportunity to celebrate Holy Mass and receive First Holy Communion directly to those ladies who spent countless hours making Spaghetti from old-world recipes and punches of secret ingredients that they carefully kept near to their hearts...

---

## Mass Intentions for the Coming Week

- Sat 5:30p In memory of Payton Trichell/Lancaster
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish
- Mon No Mass
- Tue 9:00a In memory of J.E. “Boyzie” Jumonville/family
- Wed 9:00a In memory of Gus Gremshell
- Thu 9:00a In memory of Paul Voran, Jr./Fr Ryan
- Fri 5:30p In memory of Phillip and Nettie Scurria/family
- Sat 9:00a Private Intentions of Father Ryan (Traditional Latin Mass)
- Sat 5:30p In memory of Pat Bullard/family
- Sun 9:00a Pro Populo for the Living & Deceased Members of our Parish

**ALTAR CANDLES this week are burning for the special intentions of Mary Anne Gilfoil.**

**ALTAR FLOWERS are given this week in honor of Annie Marsh and Lawton Thomas by their parents.**

## Assistants at Holy Mass

|    Date    |         Servers         |        Lector(s)        |
| :--------: | :---------------------: | :---------------------: |
| 5/1 5:30p  |     None Scheduled      |       MA Gilfoil        |
| 5/2 9:00a  | Carter, Chandler, Marsh |       J Howington       |
| 5/8 5:30p  |     None Scheduled      |         M Rome          |
| 5/9 9:00a  |   Preston and Evelyn    |         S Marsh         |
| 5/15 5:30p |     None Scheduled      |        A Farlow         |
| 5/16 9:00a | Chandler, Cooper, Mora  | Carter, Walker, & Marsh |

---

## Upcoming Events

- Confessions every Friday & Saturday from 5p until Mass at 5:30p
- Sunday Morning Catechism in the Hall after the 9:00a Mass _unless otherwise indicated_
- Pastoral Council meeting monthly on the third Tuesday at 6p _unless otherwise indicated_
- May 9 Mother’s Day
- May 16 Youth Mass honoring Seniors, Carter Sullivan, Walker Sullivan, and Marsh Wood. Reception following Mass in the Church Hall to celebrate!

## For Your Information:

ROSARY GROUP… a group of parishioners is meeting on Monday at 5:30 p.m. to pray the Rosary. Everyone is invited to join with the group. If you need additional information, please contact the Coordinator, Louise Magoun, at 318-341-2403.

FIRST COMMUNION... Congratulations to two youngsters who will receive their First Communion at Sunday’s Mass and to their parents: ANNE MARIE MARSH, daughter of Stephenie and Lance Marsh, and LAWTON THOMAS, son of Meg and Paul Thomas. Everyone is invited to greet the Communicants following Mass at a reception in the Church Hall.

ORDINATION OF THOMAS KENNEDY will be Saturday, May 22, 2021 at 10 a.m., St. Francis Xavier Cathedral in Alexandria. Michael Lancaster, on behalf of the congregation, has ordered a gift from St. Edward. If you would like to contribute to that gift, please see Michael or put your gift (in an envelope) in the collection basket.

MASS INTENTION REQUESTS… If you would like to have a Mass or Masses offered for a Special Intention (in Memory, in Honor, a birthday, anniversary, etc) you should contact the Church Office with the date you would like as well as the Intention. The usual Mass stipend offering is $5 per Mass. What a nice gift to give to the person who “has everything”!!!

FUNDRAISING WITH GROCERY TICKETS... If you shop at Doug’s and do not already do so, you may want to save your grocery tickets and place them in the bag on the table at the entrance to church. The church will be given 1% of the total of combined purchases (excluding milk, cigarettes, and alcohol). Our thanks to the ANGEL who collects the tickets and prepares them to submit to Doug’s

EMPOWERING GOD’S CHILDREN… parish volunteers must be VIRTUS trained and go online regularly at www.virtus.org for the latest training bulletins. Any questions or issues can be reported to the office. Printed resources are available on the table at the entrance to the Church.
“Protecting our Children, Understanding and Preventing Child Sexual Abuse” includes Resources and Contact Numbers for reporting abuse.
“Protecting God’s Children, Teaching Touching Safety Quick Reference Guide”
The Diocesan Policy for the Protection of Minors and The Diocesan Code of Pastoral Conduct for Priests, Deacons, Pastoral Ministers, Administrators, Staff, and Volunteers are available in the Safe Environment section of the diocesan website at DioceseAlex.org or a copy may be requested from the Safe Environment Office (318) 445-2401.

PLEDGE TO HEAL...If you or a family member has been abused or victimized by a representative of the Catholic church or a member of the clergy, please believe in the possibility for hope and help and healing. Dr. Lee Kneipp, Clinical Psychologist, Victim Assistance Coordinator, Diocese of Alexandria encourages those persons to come forward and speak out. Dr. Kneipp is establishing support groups in the central Louisiana area for victims and family members. The focus of these groups is to further emotional and spiritual healing as an adjunct to therapy, in an atmosphere of others who understand the pain, betrayal, and fear associated with abuse. Dr. Kneipp can be reached at 318-542-9805. All calls are confidential.

---

**Stewardship**

## Our Return to the Lord

|                          |         |
| :----------------------- | ------: |
| Weekly Budget FY 2020-21 | $ 2,111 |
| March Budget             | $ 8,444 |
| March Income             | $10,871 |
| March Expenses           | $ 8,820 |
| April Budget             | $ 8,444 |
| April 24/25 collection   | $ 1,980 |
| April income to Date     | $10,777 |

---

## Let us Rejoice in the Lord!

**Happy Birthday** Hunter Sullivan (May 4), Father Ryan Humphries (May 6), Colin Donham (May 7)

## In Our Daily Prayers…

_Please let us know of anyone who is ill or hospitalized and would like to receive a visit from Father. Also, help us keep our prayer list up to date by advising us of those who should be added or removed._

Our Holy Father Pope Francis and Pope-Emeritus Benedict XVI; Bishop Robert Marshall, and our Diocesan leaders, our President, Governor, Mayor and national, state and local elected representatives

Our parishioners who are sick, shut-in, or otherwise in need of our prayers: Harper Bedgood, Connie and Dan Copes, Elizabeth Crothers, Mary Ernst, Monique Florence, Margaret and Pat Gilfoil, Susan and Johnny Gilfoil, C.W. and Alyce Keene, Bill Kennedy, Charlotte Marsh and Lance and Stephenie, Brittany and Brian McFall, Ed Mills, Kathleen Mills, Sue & Mike Rome, Delia Trichell, and Don Wood

Those under full-time care: Frances Kennedy, Carol Dunning, Sharon Hansen of Gonzales, Consuelo Marsh of Lake Providence

Our friends and relatives who need our prayers: Lee Adams (Smith), Ashley Alexander (Regan), Jenna Faye Allen (Florence), Pam Amacker (Gilfoil), James Arceneaux (Book), Todd Beene, Marie Farlow Bellard, Molly Corulla, Hattie Brown (Lancaster), Jerry Bullard, Sara Cannon (Gilfoil), Truman and Diane Collins, Jami Cook (Wilks), Carol Dipert (Rome), Tommy Dunning, Joe Farlow, Mike Farlow, Thom Gilfoil, Charlotte Green, Kathy Garley Hanlon (Gilfoil), Rita Hargrave, Justin Rittenhouse and Arielle Lewis (Keene), LaLa Lopez (Hernandez), Michelle McGuire(Gilfoil), Katie and Cameron Murray, Wayne Pitre (Gilfoil), Frances Robinson, Lee and Tiffney Rome, Dianne W. Roper (Murphy), Linda Sanchez (Wilks), Theresa and Albert Thom (Rome), Meg Keene Thomas, Elaine and James Trimble (Rome), Teresa Vidrine (Wilks), George and Katie Magoun Williams, Joe Yerger

Our collegiates: Aidan Collins, Anna Ginn, Josh Hall, Chris Hall (USMC), Matt Hall (USArmy), Nick Hall, Emmy Lu Marsh, Bailey Rome, Brice Wood
Those Catholics residing at Christian Acres, Louisiana Transitional Center for Women, and our local Detention Centers and for their families and loved ones.
